Orlando Sequera: We are going to get started
Orlando Sequera: with our session.
Orlando Sequera: and we have great content to cover today.
Orlando Sequera: I'm here with with Karl and Dave, and we are ready to provide you with the best experience possible.
Orlando Sequera: Thank you so much for the feedback.
Orlando Sequera: Greatly appreciate it, and we're gonna continue to do our best to make sure that you get all the information that you need
Orlando Sequera: to
Orlando Sequera: get ready for your Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: All right, so let's get started. We have great content today to go over.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: as usual, we have
Orlando Sequera: a lot of information in the Q. And a. Section. Please review that. And as everyday
Orlando Sequera: we're going to continue
Orlando Sequera: with some housekeeping items first. Just a quick reminder.
Orlando Sequera: First one is that we will have breaks approximately every hour, right? Not exactly on the dot, but a pro as close as possible.
Orlando Sequera: We will have
Orlando Sequera: breaks, and then we're gonna have our 1 h break as you're probably used to.
Orlando Sequera: That's at the 3.5 h, mark.
Orlando Sequera: and then we'll come back for part 2 of session 5.
Orlando Sequera: But the key aspect here is, please stay locked in.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to be playing
Orlando Sequera: some videos during the 1 h break. Please stay locked in. There's important information.
Orlando Sequera: Yesterday we were playing some videos related to the actual exam
Orlando Sequera: and a lot of good information that is gonna
Orlando Sequera: help you to get ready for
Orlando Sequera: your Pmp. Exam
Orlando Sequera: continuing with the housekeeping.
Orlando Sequera: How about the resources?
Orlando Sequera: What do I do in order to get access to the resources? Multiple resources? It's not just the same content outline is it's not just about the formulas you have.
Orlando Sequera: If you're a procedure, user please go to per sepio and then make sure that you're in the right place. Make sure that you select your
Orlando Sequera: a Pmp. Atp for the current boot camp, which is a 5 day boot camp.
Orlando Sequera: and it's gonna be in the You're gonna have multiple tabs in the far, right. You're gonna find resources. You click on that, and it's gonna show you the drop down with all the resources you have access to.
Orlando Sequera: But here this is the same location where you're going to find
Orlando Sequera: the exam. Questions desperate. I keep
Orlando Sequera: mentioning that that's a very important resource in your preparation. So if you want to find Pre test prep, just click on practice, and that's how you're going to be able to get
Orlando Sequera: to test Prep.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, and not only that we have everything you need to to get ready. We have videos that are already recorded
Orlando Sequera: by Barb.
Orlando Sequera: Barb Waters, and other.
Orlando Sequera: and the instructor she's great.
Orlando Sequera: and you can watch those videos.
Orlando Sequera: That will be a deeper dive
Orlando Sequera: in order for you to understand a little bit more about certain topics that we have covered in this class.
Orlando Sequera: If you would like to get additional knowledge about those. They just go here, and you'll find them. Make sure that you are on the pmp 21
Orlando Sequera: it to make sure that you have access to the latest version. But you'll have
Orlando Sequera: videos for every single topic that we have covered. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: in the event of you not being a Per CPU users, you still can get access to the resources.
Orlando Sequera: Just go to Github. And, by the way, we, as I mentioned before, I. We have done that before on previous days. As well. Please check your Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: Section at the very top, if you sort by most most up votes.
Orlando Sequera: You're gonna be able to see a that? Karl posted some questions with this information. Here, you're gonna find at the very top. You're gonna find the link to Github, so you can get access to the Github Github folder that contains all the resources
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: also the link to the recordings.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, I know that many of you have been asking for access to a recording. So all the links are there. So far we have 4 so far, including the password. So please check the Q. A. Before you ask that question in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: Session. It is going to be the same pass code
Orlando Sequera: for all 5 sessions, and of course we don't have
Orlando Sequera: a session Number 5 that will be uploaded after the class ends.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: logging in with your with the correct information is your responsibility.
Orlando Sequera: But right now
Orlando Sequera: I I know that most of you we have become experts with that.
Orlando Sequera: Please make sure that you're looking with the right information. But if you have been using the same information from day one you do not have to check your name all right. You don't have to do that
Orlando Sequera: every single day, as we have said, multiple times
Orlando Sequera: so. But if you're logging in in a different way, you can send a test message that is not gonna get a reply to confirm that you're logging in with the right name Only if you are logging in a different way. But if you're using the same credentials that you use the day before and you already check your name.
Orlando Sequera: you are in good shape.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right
Orlando Sequera: if you happen to have any issues.
Orlando Sequera: Excuse me
Orlando Sequera: if you happen to have any issues with connectivity, You, if you're a precipi or skip, or user you can contact them directly@supportthatskillsoft.com
Orlando Sequera: for assistance.
Orlando Sequera: You do not have to notify us.
Orlando Sequera: If you have rejoined this session. If you lost a few minutes you do not have to let us know it's it's okay. Just log in and continue with the class.
Orlando Sequera: If you start getting
Orlando Sequera: recurring audio issues
Orlando Sequera: or
Orlando Sequera: video issues
Orlando Sequera: through percipio.
Orlando Sequera: My recommendation is log in through zoom. That is the recommendation, all right.
Orlando Sequera: and when it comes to the attendance the attendance tracker has
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: the information that you need to know about the instructions what to do with it at the very top. Please check the instructions.
Orlando Sequera: and I know that you are
Orlando Sequera: experts by now. All right.
Orlando Sequera: How do you participate in the Webinar? So
Orlando Sequera: we already know that we have disabled the cameras and microphones
Orlando Sequera: to say bandwidth for the class.
Orlando Sequera: hey? Whenever we have the chat active, please make sure that you change the blue box to everyone, so everyone can see what you post.
Orlando Sequera: and you can use the the the reactions for a modicants as well. So.
Orlando Sequera: And as we have said.
Orlando Sequera: the chat versus the Qa.
Orlando Sequera: A chat to respond
Orlando Sequera: to some questions that I'm. Gonna have throughout the class.
Orlando Sequera: If you want to share any preferred tools and techniques communicate with other participants.
Orlando Sequera: But we are going to keep the chat
Orlando Sequera: under control to minimize disruptions, to make this a better experience for all of you
Orlando Sequera: and the Q. A. If you have questions
Orlando Sequera: regarding the that required technical assistance, those are going to be the top priority. Please start by you are a precipice student or a non-precipient student, and be as specific as possible. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: if you happen to have any questions about guidance on how to access course, material
Orlando Sequera: step number one is to check
Orlando Sequera: the top of the at the very top of your Q. A. Section, because we have the information in there on how to get to your resources.
Orlando Sequera: But if you still have questions, then feel free to reach out
Orlando Sequera: in the Q. And a. Section and, more importantly content Related questions go in the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: And if you see a question that you that you like, please vote on that question. We are going to be answering those first. I'm going to be answering those questions. First.
Orlando Sequera: Please upload those questions clicking on the like button.
Orlando Sequera: Questions are going to be visible to all of you.
Orlando Sequera: and sort by most of votes, so you can follow along. I'll I will do my best, I promise. I know that a th. There's always there's always room for improvement. So i'm gonna try to do a better job in reading out the questions out loud. My apologies for that.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, and the top questions are gonna be selected. But one important aspect is, remember that not every single question is gonna be answered. All right, so i'm gonna go by. They're gonna be sorted by the ones that get the most up votes.
Orlando Sequera: I'm gonna do my best to answer as many questions as possible that we have been doing for the last 4 days. But unfortunately not every question is going to be answered. What is an example of a good question? Those are related to the course, content that can help
Orlando Sequera: They most of you in regards to your Pmp. Exam: preparation.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: is live attendance required, and the short answer is, Yes, this is a heart requirement that comes from the Project Management Institute
Orlando Sequera: in order to register for the Pmp. Exam. You have to complete a 35 h
Orlando Sequera: a class, and that's what you're doing with this boot camp. So today's last day with the last 7 h.
Orlando Sequera: and that's how you're gonna meet that requirement through this class. Are there any exceptions for the 5 day boot camp? Yes, you're allowed to miss one session. If you make up the session by watching the replay, if you miss more than 50 min at any time, including during breaks.
Orlando Sequera: Be on the one session loud. You have to make it up by attending the live session in a different 5 day. Cohort.
Orlando Sequera: check
Orlando Sequera: the boot camp calendar for skillsoft@calendar.com
Orlando Sequera: for more information about
Orlando Sequera: our upcoming sessions
Orlando Sequera: in the event Again, in the event of an absence
Orlando Sequera: you can request a replay for a previous session by asking in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: For a past or current session, or by emailing the mentoring team
Orlando Sequera: 48 h after the session, and it's using the email address mentoring at Skilled
Orlando Sequera: at the top of the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: Karl has been posting the link to all of the recordings. Okay, so you have that already available. But if you need to still send an email
Orlando Sequera: to request a replay. Then please make sure that you provide the right information.
Orlando Sequera: They, for example, for this particular cohort. Please make sure that you provide the cohort information.
Orlando Sequera: starting with a
Orlando Sequera: whether it is a 5 day or May day. This one is a 5 day, North America.
Orlando Sequera: January 2023
Orlando Sequera: the number of the session, and then the date and time, so we can provide you with the right information.
Orlando Sequera: We have multiple concurrent cohorts. So it is important that you provide the right information. So you we give you access to the right session.
Orlando Sequera: Questions about replace for study purposes. You attended all 5 sessions, and you will like to have access to recordings for review purposes.
Orlando Sequera: no restrictions. When it comes to that. Do you have no limitations in asking for all the replace
Orlando Sequera: for study purposes. They will be available to you for study purposes.
Orlando Sequera: All right. And now, since we're coming to the end of
Orlando Sequera: your
Orlando Sequera: a.
Orlando Sequera: we're coming to the end of the class we are. You're gonna get a certificate of completion
Orlando Sequera: at the end of your class.
Orlando Sequera: And for that
Orlando Sequera: we are going to watch.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna watch a video that is gonna help us to understand a little bit more about
Orlando Sequera: our certificates of completion.
And
Orlando Sequera: here we go
in this video we will discuss Pmp. Certificates of completion.
If you haven't already done so, please watch the Pmp. 5 day and 8 day attendance video for important information about your attendance, and how to manually track your attendance. Using the attendance tracker document.
This document is required. If you must request your certificate using the certificate request center.
Next, we will talk about the certificate of completion.
Please note that the Pmi application does not require that you attach a certificate of completion to your application. However they may ask for it. If your application is selected for an audit.
even if Pmi doesn't require it, you might want to keep this certificate of completion for your own records.
Let's go over the methods and steps you will need to follow in order to receive your certificate to receive your Pdu certificate. You must first meet the attendance requirements by completing the boot camp.
This means you must attend all the boot, camp sessions live or attend the minimum number of boot camp sessions live, and making up the remaining sessions by watching on replay for the type of boot camp you are attending
for details. Please watch the Pmp. 5 day and 8 day attendance. Video.
Second, you must use one of the available methods to receive your certificate
method one is a self-serve option only available for percipio users that attend all the sessions live.
If you are a percipio user and must join one or more sessions through zoom, you may have to use method. 2.
Please Note: if you are a percipio user check to see if you can get your certificate with the self-serve option before resorting to the certificate request center method
for all other users. You will need to request your certificate through the certificate request center.
Next we will cover the steps for both methods.
Let's go over the steps you will need to follow for method one in order to request your certificate. The steps are labeled in the Graphic for you to follow along
for step. One click on your name in the upper right hand corner
for step, 2 click activity from the menu that appears from step one
for step, 3, expand activity on the left-hand side to reveal the Pmi pdu option and select it
for Step 4, click the 3 vertical dots to the right of the highest score column
for Step 5 click the view certificate option.
Once your certificate opens in your browser. Save it to your computer, using the save option in the window. The certificate opens in.
Let's go over the steps you will need to follow for method 2 in order to request your certificate.
This applies to non-persivial users, and those percipio users that are not able to get their certificate through the self-serve option
We recommend using chrome to request your certificate.
Please visit certificate, request dotcom and click the request button to go to the instructions page.
Next review the attention learner's screen and then click, proceed to request certificate
in step. One search for the course by the course Id llpm 0 0 1 5,
just to confirm Those are zeros, not the letter o
the course. Title is Pmp. Exam. Prep. Pmi. Atp Boot Camp.
Select the course by clicking the checkbox under Pmi Pdu, and click next
in step 2, you should be able to select the date for the last session you attended, or replay session you watched whichever is the later date in the calendar selector. If you are using chrome.
enter 100 for the score.
Here are some important points to keep in mind for this step.
You cannot enter a future date. The class must have already ended.
If you get a date error, it may be because the completion date field does not have the calendar selector, and you manually entered the date in the wrong format.
If your browser doesn't have the calendar selector, try the following for the completion: date
for the months: January to September. Use a single number one through 9
for the days of the month. Use a single number one to 9. Click next. If you get an error one at a time. Try preceding the single number with a 0 until the error is resolved.
Do not use the percentage symbol for the score.
The score field must be the number 100 only.
In step 3. You'll need to upload your attendance tracker document in its native word format.
You can only upload one document, and your attendance tracker is the one document you must upload.
Once you have uploaded your attendance tracker document, click next
in step 4 you will enter your user profile information. Please include the name you want used on your certificate. It should be the same name used during your boot camp sessions not to worry, though if there was an issue with your name based on how you joined the session.
you should have manually captured it in the attendance tracker document.
enter the email address where you want to receive your certificate.
If during the boot camp session you used different email addresses for the different join methods. One of the email addresses used must be used here for your user profile
Note: When we say join method. It may have been through your training site or directly through zoom, which could potentially have different email addresses associated with them. Depending on your setup. The organization is the name of the company or institution that is providing you with access to your boot camp training.
Once you have entered your information, click next
in step 5 review the certificate request summary information. If you entered something incorrectly, select the previous button to go to the appropriate step.
If everything looks good, click the submit button
note after you have submitted your certificate request, you will see a generic response to the effect of. We have received. The uploaded progress Reports, with your submission, and your certificates will be processed within the next 14 business days. We will contact you if we have questions regarding the report you provided
Orlando Sequera: please keep in mind the number of business days in the generic response may change, your attendance will be verified. Using the uploaded file and the zoom attendance report that is saved by Skillsoft after each live or replace session.
Once your attendance has been confirmed, a 35 h Pdu certificate of completion will be issued to you by email.
Orlando Sequera: If it's been longer than the number of business days provided in the generic response. And you, Haven't received your certificate. Please check your spam or junk folder of the email address you used for your user profile in Step 4.
It may be the case. The email with your certificate was delivered there instead of your inbox.
If you need to inquire about the status of your certificate request after the number of business days has expired, please email certificate.requests@skillsoft.com.
If you have any certificate related questions based on what was discussed here, please contact the Skillsoft mentoring team by email the email address is mentoring@skillsoft.com
Orlando Sequera: all right. So
Orlando Sequera: this will be one of the videos. They
Orlando Sequera: that we're going to be playing during the 1 h lunch break.
Orlando Sequera: So you'll have. This is recorded. This is available.
Orlando Sequera: and you'll have the chance to review this information in more in more detail. So 2 ways to get
Orlando Sequera: your certificate of completion
Orlando Sequera: for your Pmp. Exempt.
All right.
Orlando Sequera: And now we are going to
Orlando Sequera: do a recap. We cover
Orlando Sequera: a very important content. Yesterday
Orlando Sequera: we started with
Orlando Sequera: the risk super important area for the exam.
Orlando Sequera: We learned the definition of risk. We cover
Orlando Sequera: the fact that we have 2 types of risks. We have positive risks
Orlando Sequera: that are called opportunities. We have
Orlando Sequera: negative risks that we call threats, and we know that at risk it's it's an uncertainty that may or may not happen in our project.
Orlando Sequera: and we also learned that when it comes to risk, there are
Orlando Sequera: basically 3 main steps that we have to follow. We have to start by identifying the possible risks that are that, could I that could impact our project. And we're not we're going to look at them from 2 perspectives we're going to look at them at them from the likelihood or probability of a current, and also
Orlando Sequera: the impact to our project. So the first step is risk identification.
Orlando Sequera: We have to involve everyone in risk identification. Remember that for the exam. We have to. It's not just you the Pm: yeah, of course you're part of
Orlando Sequera: you. You are one of the main parties. When it comes to risk notification. You have to do your best, but you also have to rely on the team. Remember that they're the the ones that are most familiar with the scope that is being a that is part of your project. The work that is being done to produce those project deliverables.
Orlando Sequera: They need to help your stakeholders have to help. And basically anyone within the organization that can assist.
Orlando Sequera: Please make sure that you provide that awareness. Risk identification is a team sport. It's not to. It's not an individual sport.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: and the outcome of that process is going to be
Orlando Sequera: What an artifact that we call risk register. It's nothing but a spreadsheet, a list of risks that we have been able to identify. Okay, so that's version one
Orlando Sequera: of our risk register. We just have a list of risks that we have been able to identify the second step when it comes to risk
Orlando Sequera: is risk, assessment and work or risk analysis. We're gonna do that from 2 perspectives. The first one is, and that's the most common one
Orlando Sequera: most organizations
Orlando Sequera: use. This approach is what we call qualitative risk analysis. This is a type of analysis that is turning a subjective manner.
Orlando Sequera: and it's based on expertise
Orlando Sequera: mainly your team members
Orlando Sequera: and some text stakeholder stakeholders. For that matter.
Orlando Sequera: they have been in similar situations in the past. They have experience
Orlando Sequera: xyc risks. They know which ones have a higher probability of impact, a and and higher impact, high prevalent of occurrence and a higher impact to the project. And they can start and using some
Orlando Sequera: a template that may or may not be available in the organization, like the probability and impact matrix. Your what you're trying to do with this qualitative analysis is to
Orlando Sequera: it prioritized your risks, and you might be wondering well why
Orlando Sequera: Don't? Why can we address every single risk? And the answer to that is, remember for your project. You have limited resources. You only have a set amount of time and a set amount of money to complete your and and limited resources. By that I mean people, and
Orlando Sequera: and also materials, equipment, and and and supply.
Orlando Sequera: in order to complete your project. So that means that you have to prioritize. That's what we're doing with this type of analysis.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: the outcome of that analysis is going to be version 2 of your race register. Now, with that information that we completed, we are going to rearrange our
Orlando Sequera: risk, register how those risks that have a higher probability of occurrence or likelihood is the same.
Orlando Sequera: and impact are going to go to the top of the risk register. Those that have a lower probability of occurrence and impact are going to go to the bottom of the risk register.
Orlando Sequera: and then
Orlando Sequera: we move on and perform the second type of assessment or analysis, which is what we call.
Orlando Sequera: while it qualitative, quantitative, quantitative risk analysis. And here the differences that we're going to be using data. This is where those simulations come into play. The classic example, as I mentioned yesterday, for
Orlando Sequera: quantitative risk analysis is
Orlando Sequera: the Monte Carlo simulation.
Orlando Sequera: Here we're going to be using specialized equipment
Orlando Sequera: because depending on the complexity that of over projects. Some products are very complex. That's dictated by the scope. And we need to do a thorough job in analyzing the possible scenarios. And for that we're gonna use. We're gonna need simulation. We we're gonna need
Orlando Sequera: specialized equipment computers that can run simulations and then analyze thousands of possible scenarios. So so we can come
Orlando Sequera: with a range of scenarios, and that's what we do with the actual quantitative type of risk analysis it's supported by data. This is not used in every single industry is used in some industries. This equipment is very expensive. Most organizations do not have
Orlando Sequera: a this type of equipment in place, but some examples are weather forecasting. They do have that in place, and they use the Monte Carlo simulation to predict the path of
Orlando Sequera: storms and hurricanes. For example, we do have a we do have it in. Airspace
Orlando Sequera: is widely used to represent, for example, the conditions of outer space that could impact or affect a a spacecraft. So
Orlando Sequera: that is that we need a complex simulation for that. So some industry, healthcare, they use it in as well financial industry as well insurance. They use it as well, so some industries they use it. A some industries don't.
Orlando Sequera: But for the exam for the purposes of the exam you need to assume that you're going to be
Orlando Sequera: assessing risks, following the qualitative risk analysis and the quantitative risk analysis. Okay, and the outcome of that quantitative risk analysis is going to be version. 3 of your
Orlando Sequera: raise registers gonna help you to them.
Orlando Sequera: rearrange and reprioritize those risks.
Orlando Sequera: Another important piece of information about the risk register is that every single risk that you have been able to identify has to have a risk owner.
Orlando Sequera: a associated with that risk. That is the individual that is in charge of implementing Step number 3, which is the risk response. Once we identify our risks.
Orlando Sequera: Once we analyze the risks following the qualitative analysis and quantitative analysis. Step number 3 is to come up with a response.
Orlando Sequera: We have multiple responses. It's not just mitigation, and by mitigation I mean
Orlando Sequera: a reduced probability and impact. We have multiple responses, nor all. No, it's not always mitigation. We cover them yesterday.
Orlando Sequera: Please make sure that you review them. Mitigation is going to be
Orlando Sequera: useful for those risks, those negative risk or threats that are at the top of your risk register.
Orlando Sequera: They they have hyperly high impact. Mitigation is
Orlando Sequera: going to allow you to reduce that probability that impact. So.
Orlando Sequera: But if you have a risk that has low, provided low impact, then acceptance might be the best the best response so.
Orlando Sequera: or in some cases you have a risk that you don't really have the capability. You're building a website, and you're
Orlando Sequera: you're trying to a You try. And do you do not want to?
Orlando Sequera: A. I? Do. You do not want to take on the risk of storing credit card information because you're gonna be selling services or products in your website. Then you can transfer that to a third party. So that is, that is an example of transference. Okay, please make sure that you review the different
Orlando Sequera: A responses.
Orlando Sequera: It's not just mitigation, By the way. By the way, if I was suspecting that question didn't come up. But risk elimination, is not
Orlando Sequera: It's not a possibility. It's not it's it's impossible risk. Elimination is impossible. That's why you don't see it in one of your If it's not one of the responses right, we can eliminate risk a 100%. So if you ever hear someone saying no risk, Haven't have been eliminated. 100% run. That person has no clue what they're saying.
Orlando Sequera: But remember, we also have responses for
Orlando Sequera: positive risks. But please make sure that you review those. So we have responses for both, and that's what we have to act on when those risks come to fruition.
Orlando Sequera: We also talked about a very important aspect, at least initially. And today we're going to continue talking about that.
Orlando Sequera: We we started talking about quality. We cover the difference between quality and great
Orlando Sequera: that this is important to understand. We talked about the standards. Briefly. We mentioned. Continuous improvement and quality is a super important aspect of project. Management is how well we deliver the requirements
Orlando Sequera: specified by the customer. Right? That's what's gonna Dictate the quality of our product of of our project, and we have standards to follow, and we there multiple theories about quality that we do follow, and by it it's an important area, an extremely important area of your project.
Orlando Sequera: We also talked about integration.
Orlando Sequera: So all these multiple plans, and when you hear the work plan, the chances are that we're talking about predictive
Orlando Sequera: all these multiple plans that we are creating. They need to come together, and by that I mean your scope, management. Plan, your schedule management, plan your your your cost, management, plan your race management, plan, your quality management, plan.
Orlando Sequera: communication, management plan. They all need to be integrated. We we, we're not going to look at them as silos they all come together, and that integration happens a through the overall project management plan.
Orlando Sequera: Think of a big umbrella that Co. The ha that covers all those different subsidiary plans. They all come together because we have to manage the entire project. Not just independent silos.
Orlando Sequera: We talked about that, and then we came back for
Orlando Sequera: a part 2 of the of our sessions. Yesterday we started talking about leading the project team, covering important topics about leadership. We talked about servant leadership
Orlando Sequera: A. A. Remember what I mentioned before. Look at the questions from the perspective of a servant leader. That is important as part of the Pmp. Mindset. I want you to remember for the Pmp. Exam. Look at those questions
Orlando Sequera: from the perspective of a servant leader as the project manager.
Orlando Sequera: Then we talked about collaboration and the team environment.
Orlando Sequera: It also tied up to
Orlando Sequera: You're a
Orlando Sequera: Hmm. Projecting environment and collaboration also taking into account serve and leadership out in power. The team we mentioned training, coaching, mentoring. That is important how to support a team member performance again, training, mentoring, coaching.
Orlando Sequera: call out communicating and collaboration with stakeholders. Super super super important. That is key.
Orlando Sequera: We do this regardless of the approach, whether we go predictive or agile. That is a very important aspect.
Orlando Sequera: We also talked about emotional intelligence, super important for the for the Pmp. Exam. Make sure that you
Orlando Sequera: master the definition of emotional intelligence. Remember, we are working with people, and we can let our emotions dictate our actions. Okay, and it's a two-way street, and we also have to pay attention to how our reactions impact other people that's what we call empathy
Orlando Sequera: important.
Orlando Sequera: We cover a in detail a training coach and a mentoring when it comes to training. We also learn that
Orlando Sequera: the training that we have to provide to both team members and also our stakeholders. We need to make that part of our
Orlando Sequera: the of our efforts of our initial planning efforts, because that's gonna have.
Orlando Sequera: There is a cost associated with that training, and there is an impact on the schedule. So we need to. That's why we're taking this into account right now, because it's gonna have an impact on other areas of our project.
Orlando Sequera: And we wrapped up the session
Orlando Sequera: an extremely important topic for the Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: That you should expect a few questions on that related to conflict management. So please make sure that you review that session. That part of the session. Really Well, we covered the different types of conflict. Remember
Orlando Sequera: functional conflict or good conflict, or
Orlando Sequera: it's. Okay. That's allowed. Conflict is
Orlando Sequera: inevitable. It's unavoidable. It's going to happen because we're working with people. But functional conflict is okay. This functional conflict is bad conflict. We don't want
Orlando Sequera: a functional conflict conflict to escalate
Orlando Sequera: and become this functional, that, and by dysfunctional, I mean, when it's taken to a personal level. That's when problem starts to happen, and we have to monitor that flow those situations as closely as possible.
Orlando Sequera: But you might be wondering so why do we have to allow positive conflict? Because good conflict or functional conflict when you there are disagreements, have a past different ways of doing things. That's okay, because if it's managed appropriately that fosters creativity, you might come up
Orlando Sequera: with a better way of doing things incorporating it. That's why collaboration problem. Solving is the best way to manage conflict. Because if you can incorporate multiple viewpoints. Then you can come up with a more enhanced
Orlando Sequera: approach to solve the the the conflict and the challenges that you're trying to address whatever it is. Okay, so please review that really well.
Orlando Sequera: the different a conflict management resolution techniques that we covered. That is important for the Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: And today we're going to cover the last 2 lessons. What we have in store for today we have a lesson. Number 5 is
Orlando Sequera: supporting projecting performance. As the work is being done. We have to support the team performance, and we're gonna go over.
Orlando Sequera: What do we have to do? How can we implement ongoing improvements thing? There's always room for for improvement.
Orlando Sequera: So what can we do to implement ongoing improvements? How can we support the team performance?
Orlando Sequera: Then we're going to talk about evaluating project progress
Orlando Sequera: that is important as well. We have to monitor and look at things, how things are going with our project, and if we need to make
Orlando Sequera: and apply any corrections.
Orlando Sequera: How do we manage project issues and impediments? That's gonna happen in every single project? So we need to be cognizant of that and address them. And then we're gonna talk in detail about something that we have been mentioning throughout the class.
Orlando Sequera: How do we manage project changes regardless of the approach? How do we do it in predictive? And how do we do it in adaptive?
Orlando Sequera: Okay. And then we're going to wrap up the session with
Orlando Sequera: project, face
Orlando Sequera: or project closure. That is important because every single project comes to an end. You can do it by face, and you can do it by the actual project, but every single product comes comes to an end. You also have to
Orlando Sequera: go back and take a look at the benefits, realization, the the benefits that we said that we plan, for did they come to fruition.
Orlando Sequera: and one important aspect.
Orlando Sequera: regardless of the approach Again, whether we go predictive or whether we go agile is going to be knowledge transfer that is tied up to lessons. Learn?
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so that's what we have in store. I'm also gonna do my best to have a session a. Hopefully, we have a few minutes to go over final tips and recommendations for the Pmp. Exam. But I've been talking about that. But we're gonna do a summary of fully at the end
Orlando Sequera: A of the session will have enough time. I'm i'm gonna do my best to have a a few minutes to go over the exam. All right.
Orlando Sequera: so we are going to get started
Orlando Sequera: before we start with the content. I'm gonna take a look at
Orlando Sequera: the Q. And a. To address
Orlando Sequera: A: any questions, and we're gonna get started with the content. Okay, please remember to vote on
Orlando Sequera: the questions so we can.
Orlando Sequera: All right. So let me take a look at
Orlando Sequera: It's a question that in the Q. A. Do we have Prep. Do we have
Orlando Sequera: preparation Exams. Pmp. Exams offered by per CPU
Orlando Sequera: with question, examples, and so on. Yes, we do. We have. We mentioned in that from day one. If you go to percipio you log into percipio, make sure that you're in the right place. Pmp: Atp bootcamp 2021, and
Orlando Sequera: under practice there's gonna be on the
Orlando Sequera: a on the right hand on the left hand side. I'm gonna go back to that slide. We have it
in today's session.
Orlando Sequera: If you log into percipio
Orlando Sequera: when you log into precipice. Please make sure that you're in the right place.
Orlando Sequera: Pmp: Atp. And then you're gonna have an option that says practice to click on practice. That's what's gonna take you to test Prep: okay? So
Orlando Sequera: that will be
Orlando Sequera: the answer to that question.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: That's a very important research for your preparation. So.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: there's another question.
Orlando Sequera: If there's a specific time block that the exam needs to be taken from attending life or no, it's tied up mostly to the application. Once your application with Pm. With Pmi has been approved, you have one year to take the exam.
Orlando Sequera: What is the difference between mitigation plan? Mitigation is a response.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: what's the difference with the mitigation plan? Contingency plan? Contingency is
Orlando Sequera: a type of reserve that
Orlando Sequera: basically a set amount of money, a set amount of time that we have
Orlando Sequera: A as a buffer to address any risks that come to fruition and mitigation is a type of response, and the question is what is the difference between mitigation plan and continuously plan? Okay, Mitigation is a response. It's not a plan, and contingency is a reserve. A type of reserve is not a plan either.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Do you mean that any risk cannot be eliminated? 100%? Yes, or that we cannot eliminate a 100% of all the risk for a project also. Yes, both
Orlando Sequera: is the in it. Another question in the Q. A. Is the integrated Project mansion plan, typically a document that points to references to all the other subsidiary documents. That's a good way to put it. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: it's a learner can mandatory. Yes, by Pmi
Orlando Sequera: for Monte Carlo qualitative analysis. What kind of equipment software is needed? Specialized computers and specialized simulation software
Orlando Sequera: that at least very expensive thousands of dollars.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Another question in the in the Q. A. When
Orlando Sequera: do you use contingency to say for man to and deserve? We mentioned that but one more time
Orlando Sequera: use contingency reserves to address any risks that were identified in the Risk Register use management reserves for for risks that were not identified
Orlando Sequera: in your project that are not in the Chris Register.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: I think we're getting cut up with the questions.
Orlando Sequera: Another question are some of the
Orlando Sequera: quantitative risk, and I said myth possible with a specialized software. My insurance is going to be. No.
Orlando Sequera: You need specialized equipment and software for that, and it's very expensive. That's why most organizations don't
Orlando Sequera: do it. It's tied up to the level of complexity.
Orlando Sequera: All right, and
Orlando Sequera: all right. So I think the rest of the questions are related to resources and technical issues. So let's get started.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: we're going to talk about support theme
Orlando Sequera: performance
Orlando Sequera: about implementing, ongoing improvements supporting performance.
Orlando Sequera: evaluate project progress manage issues and impediments. And also how do we manage changes? That's what we have in store.
Orlando Sequera: The goal here is to learn how to
Orlando Sequera: to understand the different methods for implementing improvement.
Orlando Sequera: The different methods that we have available
Orlando Sequera: or performance measurement.
Orlando Sequera: Compare these methods
Orlando Sequera: through with the main aspect that is, communication and accountability.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to identify methods for implementing a project.
Orlando Sequera: a project on the issues and impediments that arise during the project, how to address those issues and impediment. So the team can move forward.
Orlando Sequera: and then we're gonna go over how to implement changes. Super important change is going to happen in every single project. Okay, so we have to have an approach on how to manage those changes.
Orlando Sequera: It's gonna be different in predictive compared to adaptive.
Orlando Sequera: But we have to. We have to have a strategy on how to manage those changes we have been mentioning that. But we're gonna get we're gonna do a deeper dive into the change management process
Orlando Sequera: all right, when it comes to implementing ongoing improvements.
Orlando Sequera: The first topic, super super super important, and most organizations are
Orlando Sequera: paying more more attention to that is
Orlando Sequera: a because it has impact on the quality of the work that it's been done is continuous improvement, continuous improvement
Orlando Sequera: it. This is one of the key principles
of agile, continuous improvement.
Orlando Sequera: It covers everything related to ongoing efforts. It's an ongoing effort
Orlando Sequera: to improve the way we produce.
Orlando Sequera: We
Orlando Sequera: we produce products, services, or processes, and we do this through small incremental improvements, or we can do it in large breakthroughs. Okay, like we do with a with a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: This is a basic strategy that was developed at the organization level that is now being used at the project level.
Orlando Sequera: and it's usually implemented by
Orlando Sequera: a pmo. If there is a pmo in place, or
Orlando Sequera: through a structure learning approach. If the organization is following
Orlando Sequera: a specific, continuous improvement, framework, like Agile, or it could be through the other option and implementation of 6, Sigma.
Orlando Sequera: and he comes from him
Orlando Sequera: Kaisen, which is the
Orlando Sequera: Japanese work. Well, a couple of words Kai means change, and zen means good, so that is tied up to continuous improvement.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: now we're going to
Orlando Sequera: a watch a video that is gonna help us to understand a little bit more
Orlando Sequera: about Kaisen.
Orlando Sequera: and we're going to.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to see how K. Some relates to
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: the plan, do check act cycle
Orlando Sequera: in how is an evolution of that?
Orlando Sequera: So let's watch this video. Let me make sure that i'm sharing this sound, and I am. So we're gonna watch this video to learn a little bit more about this continuous improvement approach.
Orlando Sequera: Choose casin.
The lean approach to learning is very pragmatic.
Lean teams are constantly doing small experiments and analyzing the results. If there's a measurable improvement. The small change is adopted, and the team jumps into its next small experiment.
This enables lean teams to make continuous small refinements to their processes, refinements that add up to noticeable improvements over time.
The idea is to improve through a series of small changes, a strategy. The lean community calls Kaisen
Japanese for improvement.
It's usually represented like this.
And while the idea is strong, most organizations need a step-by-step approach that will yield results.
and that looks like this.
Here's how it works.
First, an organization identifies potential improvement.
such as a new practice or strategy that they want to experiment with, to see how well it works in their situation.
Then they try it out.
They implement the change
After a brief period they'll assess whether the change has been effective.
They'll measure it against clear outcomes.
If the new way of working is effective, they adopt it.
If it isn't, they abandon it for now, at least.
But they're not done
at that point. They share what they've learned with others. Other members of their team and other teams throughout their organization.
Then start the process over.
It is continuous improvement. After all.
Orlando Sequera: before we continue, this is super important for project Management Tyson Continuous Improvement. The Plan do Study Act cycle.
Orlando Sequera: This was developed by by Dr. Damon.
Orlando Sequera: Walter Damon.
Orlando Sequera: Back in the early fifties he worked, and
Orlando Sequera: he actually just a quick anecdote, because it is important. This is one of the cornerstones. By the way, if you look at the plan, do study act. That is one of the cornerstones of
Orlando Sequera: project management. As we know it today. It is
Orlando Sequera: an evolution of that actually.
Orlando Sequera: And in the plan to study at with a plan to study act as we saw with the video, we start by planning. We define the objectives and processes to deliver results.
Orlando Sequera: We do. We execute the plan, collect data to determine whether our plan has been effective or not. Then we check
Orlando Sequera: those results. We compared the data
Orlando Sequera: to what we plan for, and we make, and then we act. We make adjustments
Orlando Sequera: through to identify root causes of problems. And then
Orlando Sequera: over time there was that iteration of sharing the learning with others. So this is where project management, this continuous improvement about monitoring and controlling and improving comes from
Orlando Sequera: if you want to.
Orlando Sequera: They have an idea on how important this work was done by Dr. Damon. Quick anecdote!
Orlando Sequera: I've had the chance to read a couple of his books. Great books. One of them is out of the crisis. I was strongly suggested. You don't need that for the Pmp example quality. He's the father of total quality management.
Orlando Sequera: And back in the fifties, just to look if this useful or not, i'm gonna give you a quick example. He went
Orlando Sequera: to the main, a back in the fifties, early fifties to the main, to the Big 3 in Detroit, the big car manufacturing companies
Orlando Sequera: and for GM. A. And he served with them.
Orlando Sequera: This approach, because this is better. They were
Orlando Sequera: basically
Orlando Sequera: based in their approach, a massive production of everything, and remember the context we were. That was Post World War Ii. In.
Orlando Sequera: or at least in this country. Everything was a massive, manufacturing, massive inventories, massive amounts of parts, and
Orlando Sequera: not really paying attention to waste, and it was about having a a ton of inventory of everything massive production. We're minimally trained workers will produce massive amounts of everything or parts, and put together an assembled cars. Nobody listen in Detroit at the time, so he ended up going to Japan.
Orlando Sequera: They did listen, and
Orlando Sequera: he's regarded as one of the feathers of the Japanese miracles to recover from World War 2. So
Orlando Sequera: this works this important, and then, after a few years the big companies in Detroit Listen. They They implemented this approach, and it is widely used in many, many organizations so
Orlando Sequera: really important and interesting
Orlando Sequera: a topic
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to a continuous improvement.
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: organizations have multiple approaches for that
Orlando Sequera: A one key aspect of
Orlando Sequera: continuous improvement is, and this is where more and more and more organizations are paying more attention to, because it allows them to avoid reinventing the wheel every single time they face. A similar situation is the power of the lessons to learn. That's why
Orlando Sequera: the lessons learned before in the past They were
Orlando Sequera: kinda looked at a a as a as a as a as something that that we don't have time for, that we we know what we're doing. We don't need to be keeping track of lessons learned. We have done in multiple times. No, there's always a way to improve this. So it's a a way to learn
Orlando Sequera: from
Orlando Sequera: the past. So it is crucial that in your projects your lessons learned register is kept up to date at all times. We don't have to wait until the end of the project, so
Orlando Sequera: it's the lessons we register up to date. That is an important aspect of continuous improvement.
Orlando Sequera: that is, if you're following a predictive approach, or if you're following an agile approach. If the team having a regular retrospective, which is a special ceremony or meeting in which the team is gonna go over exactly that they're gonna go over lessons. Learned and possible improvements
Orlando Sequera: are the team members, Lincoln, Sigma, or Certified and Ag on method depending on the approach that we're following for continuous improvement. Do we have the knowledge that we need to have? Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Do we know about Kaisen? Do we know about lean? Do we know about crystal methods, or a Cm. That is becoming more and more prevalent. A NASA is huge, for example, when it comes to Cmi, and there are certifications that need to be in place.
Orlando Sequera: and the organizations that do work with multiple government agencies. They need to be cmi certified. Do we have a process of improve process, improvement plan in place, and the project management plan is part of that. Okay. So
Orlando Sequera: pay attention
Orlando Sequera: to your organization and it try. Try to to determine whether Some of this is applicable to the work that you are to import. Continuous improvement is a big, big aspect when it comes to project management, regardless of the approach.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to sounds mentioned before
Orlando Sequera: a mainly agile projects.
Orlando Sequera: we have
Orlando Sequera: a specific ceremony that we call a retrospective.
Orlando Sequera: and this is pretty much how it works. And we go over lessons learned basically
Orlando Sequera: before having the ceremony. You can
Orlando Sequera: have some topics and go because the goal here is to have to get people to talk.
Orlando Sequera: and you can start in a whiteboard with a couple of columns. What? What? When will, and what could be improved? This is not, By the way, when it comes to retrospective and lessons learn
Orlando Sequera: one huge mistake that I've seen in some organizations to start. They start. They turn this retrospective into a blaming game.
Orlando Sequera: That is not the case. The retrospective has to have a positive tone, a positive, it is a positive
Orlando Sequera: meaning, a positive ceremony in which the goal is to find improvements. What can we do to improve? So we we can go over what, when? Well.
Orlando Sequera: what needs to be improved. Okay, that is
Orlando Sequera: given it the positive connotation.
Orlando Sequera: And you start
Orlando Sequera: trying to get people to talk
Orlando Sequera: at them. Get them to talk. Get them to talk. Well remember that's why we want to build a safe environment. So our team members
Orlando Sequera: and stakeholders can be there as well, so they can provide their input without fear of, without any fear at all. Okay. So give them time to talk, and they narrow those improvements
Orlando Sequera: and then get the team get consensus on the team that they agree that those are the positive, they, the most important improvements that we can, that we can implement in future iterations or sprint, and then
Orlando Sequera: select a few of those possible improvements and apply them in the very next iteration. Not many, because we we still it's only 2 weeks, 3 weeks, or 4 weeks. We gotta pick the ones that are the most important, but that are going to help us to be more productive. So
Orlando Sequera: one difference, I would say, between predictive and
Orlando Sequera: agile is that imagine we can apply lessons to learn in real time with predictive. We compile our lessons, learned throughout the entire life cycle of the project.
Orlando Sequera: Even when we start identifying stakeholders, and when we are a creating, working with a sponsor in developing the product charter, we can start gathering lessons, for at that particular time throughout the entire life cycle of the project.
Orlando Sequera: but and keeping our stakeholder right, our lessons learned, register up to date, and add in more and more or less to serve as they come.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: at the end of the project that's when we have
Orlando Sequera: a similar meeting we have. We go over lessons from
Orlando Sequera: that prior to closure.
Orlando Sequera: and our list of sort of register is going to make its way
Orlando Sequera: to a larger repository that we call the lessons or repository, so all their projects can benefit from our lessons from. So we get to wait until the next project to start benefiting from our less concerned. If we're following a predictive approach. With that jelly is different. We're doing this one
Orlando Sequera: one iteration at a time. In every single iteration we're going to have at the end of retrospective ceremony.
Orlando Sequera: But we still cover lessons from
Orlando Sequera: we.
Orlando Sequera: In addition to use less of our registers
Orlando Sequera: and retrospective, we can also
Orlando Sequera: use additional methods for improvement.
Orlando Sequera: one that is very common in marketing. For example.
Orlando Sequera: A: When you're trying to determine customer preferences is a B testing
Orlando Sequera: when you're trying to gather feedback to identify improvements. A quick example of a. B testing. Let's assume that we're trying to create a new, a new website for the organization. We can create
Orlando Sequera: version a of the website with certain specific functionality, and we can create
Orlando Sequera: another version of the website with different functionality and give access to our users, and then we compare a to B.
Orlando Sequera: And that's how based on the feedback we're going to be able to identify
Orlando Sequera: the the features that
Orlando Sequera: our users in the organization will like to see in the website. So that's one way to capture that to to capture a feedback for improvement. You can perform experiments to improve team efficiency and effectiveness, and you can apply controls
Orlando Sequera: if do doing it. It's important to not to. When you're implementing or using experiments.
Orlando Sequera: including the AV. Testing
Orlando Sequera: you, you you shouldn't do another experiment at the same time, otherwise your your results might might contaminate, so there might not be as effective as possible. Do you want to isolate the results? So one experiment at a time, a
Orlando Sequera: another
Orlando Sequera: tool that you have available, or method
Orlando Sequera: for continuously per minute what what they call the pareto chart, or 80, 20, or the 80, 20 rule
the
Orlando Sequera: because usually 80% of the promise come from 20% of the of the cost is we gonna we want to isolate that that 20, so we can then be specific and direct the efforts where they can make the biggest impact.
Orlando Sequera: And it's basically taking a big problem and breaking it down to smaller pieces. So those are ways that you also have
Orlando Sequera: to improve
Orlando Sequera: for continuous improvement.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: another
Orlando Sequera: aspect. That it's important is that we have to update our processes. Some of those lessons were might drive
Orlando Sequera: updates to certain documentation. We have to make sure that we do that, and
Orlando Sequera: it might update
Orlando Sequera: overall processes. It might drive some overall updates for the process that the organization has in in place. It's about continuous improvement. This is ongoing. It never ends.
Orlando Sequera: and some of the lessons learned at your project level can be applicable to every single project in the organization. That's the beauty of lessons learned that's why organizations are paying more and more attention to the lessons for an aspect of project management, because
Orlando Sequera: it translates into a higher efficiency
Orlando Sequera: cost savings and in in improvements across the board.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: I'm going to unpo the chat.
Orlando Sequera: and to you
Orlando Sequera: in your organizations. Do you have
Orlando Sequera: continuous improvement, procedures or processes?
Orlando Sequera: All right. I see the some of you are saying 6, Sigma.
Orlando Sequera: some of you are saying, may a lean some of you are saying Kaisen right? So
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: I'm glad to see that most of you are saying, Yes.
Orlando Sequera: all right. I'm going to post the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Thank you for the feedback.
Orlando Sequera: and when it comes to continuous improvement as as a project manager it is important that we
Orlando Sequera: are able to learn about the different
Orlando Sequera: a theories out there, right it is. It is important that we learn about the different theories out there. There are multiple theories. It's not just the Demings
Orlando Sequera: theories. We have Taguchi, Crosby Smith multiple offers. So we have to
Orlando Sequera: become well versed when it comes to continuous improvement.
Orlando Sequera: Educate ourselves. That's important. That's one of the aspects of project management that I enjoy the most. You get a chance to learn about so many different disciplines
Orlando Sequera: that are applicable and useful to the field of project management.
Orlando Sequera: Another important aspect is.
Orlando Sequera: and this is widely
Orlando Sequera: using in in agile.
Orlando Sequera: It's okay to fail. It's. Okay. It's okay to fail. We're navigating complexity.
Orlando Sequera: Encourage your team to have a failed fast mentality. Let's fail. But early. So we can then change correction, change, change course as quickly as possible. It's okay to fail, but let's fail quickly and
Orlando Sequera: as early as possible, so we can then move on, make the adjustments that we have to make and move on. It's going to happen. So encourage a felt fast mindset.
Orlando Sequera: make sure that you are able to identify all the improvements, material training, process, or equipment that you need to help your team to be more successful. That is part of being a a servant leader. By the way.
Orlando Sequera: measure the effect or impact of any change, and then remember that continuous improvement is ongoing.
Orlando Sequera: Repeat this. You start somewhere. But the it. This is a it. This is. The wheels are going to be painting. Okay, it's
Orlando Sequera: on on going process them repeat. So you go back
Orlando Sequera: to cycle in
Orlando Sequera: you start continuing with that.
Orlando Sequera: and that takes us to
Orlando Sequera: the end.
Orlando Sequera: These are the topics that we cover. We cover continuous improvement.
Orlando Sequera: We're talking about planning continuous improvement methods.
Orlando Sequera: We were able to cover the continuous information, framework.
Orlando Sequera: methods, procedures and tools, and recommended
Orlando Sequera: a and executing continuous improvements steps.
Orlando Sequera: I am going to review. We're gonna take a break. We're ready for a set for first break. We're gonna take a break when we come back. I'm gonna
Orlando Sequera: answer some of the questions that we have in the Q. A. And we'll be back in 10 min. Thank you very much. Everyone
Orlando Sequera: welcome back everyone.
Orlando Sequera: We are going to continue with a class.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: before we move on I
Orlando Sequera: like to
Orlando Sequera: to review the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: For any
Orlando Sequera: content, related questions.
Orlando Sequera: There's a question in the chat. Can you do a quick overview of mean crystal methods? C. M. My.
Orlando Sequera: we're
Orlando Sequera: so.
Orlando Sequera: One thing that I wanted to point out the
Orlando Sequera: Pmp. Exam. Has
Orlando Sequera: agile, related content. But it's not expecting you to be an agile expert. Let me start by saying that.
Orlando Sequera: but it is important to know that there are multiple flavors of agile. Okay, it's not just from there's a common misconception out there that many people think that all agile is chrome. That is the most popular flavor of Agile.
Orlando Sequera: I will call it the chalk matter of
Orlando Sequera: agile, but it's not the only flavor
Orlando Sequera: we are going to talk about some
Orlando Sequera: The other aspects.
Orlando Sequera: We have been mentioning continuous improvement, Kaisen.
Orlando Sequera: but we're trying to it's it's a lot of content, right? So we're trying to focus on the most important areas for any additional information my recommendation would be, You have your reference. That's where your references might come really handy. There's a little bit more content in the address practice Guide. If you want to do
Orlando Sequera: a deeper dive for we're trying to focus on those important aspects.
Orlando Sequera: A of the Pmp: Exam.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So
cool.
Orlando Sequera: Let's go over
Orlando Sequera: additional questions.
Orlando Sequera: What risk management standards come up with Pmp. Will we cover the approach? So that Co. Was covered yesterday in detail, and we did a recap today on how
Orlando Sequera: it is done.
Orlando Sequera: Another question in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: How do you encourage a fail? Fast mentality
Orlando Sequera: by
Orlando Sequera: tailing your team members?
Orlando Sequera: It's okay. No, we're not. Especially if we're following up
Orlando Sequera: an agile approach.
Orlando Sequera: It's okay. To we're gonna we're not gonna get it right right at the beginning. The scope is complex. We're gonna have. We're gonna make multiple changes. It's okay. But ideally at the beginning, as certainly as possible. If we
Orlando Sequera: if we are not a 100% successful. It's okay. We can change course. We can change corrections. That's why we're following this adaptive approach. So
A.
Orlando Sequera: But you're not gonna they're not gonna be able to complete all the all the user stories it it's there's a possibility. They may or may not, but it's okay that that's what we mean by fell fast.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: So there's another question. So cme my crystal methods, kaisen, or has your flavors not process to use? They are agile flavors. Yes, approaches. But
Orlando Sequera: again.
Orlando Sequera: to have an idea on how can they ask you about this type of
Orlando Sequera: a flavors of agile or any topic for the accent. That's why you need to take practice questions in test press. So you know
Orlando Sequera: the death of knowledge that you need to have
Orlando Sequera: for the Pmp. Exam. We mentioned this multiple times. The exam is
Orlando Sequera: about critical thinking. They're not going to ask you a definition. They're not going to ask you about.
Orlando Sequera: They're not going to try, and they're not trying to measure how well you know a specific topic. They're trying to determine. Can you use these tools? That's what they're
Orlando Sequera: looking for.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right. There's another question that I see here. I want to address that When we talk about the actual Pmp: Exam. Preparation.
Orlando Sequera: One more time. The question is, Hi Orlando I'm. A precipitation
Orlando Sequera: which addition of the PIN. But do you recommend to focus on the
Orlando Sequera: for the Pmp. Exam preparation? That is the question. And the answer is.
Orlando Sequera: What you really need to review is the exam. Content Outline one more time. What you're gonna be tested on
Orlando Sequera: is in the exam. Content outline, not the pinboard. The ping book is one of 10 different references.
Orlando Sequera: and it's good as a reference. Okay, the PIN book is really good as a reference, but it's not a study, Guy. That's not what the PIN book is. It's a compilation of good practices, both
Orlando Sequera: both PIN box, 6 edition and seventh edition, this content that you have here. This is a distill version of all those 5,000 pages
Orlando Sequera: that have that are cover in those 10 different references. Please do not think that the Pmp. Exam. Is an exam based on the PIN book.
Orlando Sequera: All these topics. This is what you need to to master
Orlando Sequera: the exam. Content Outline is what you need to review. The Pmp. Exam. Is based on the exam. Content outline. That's why at the end of its section. We're going over the exam. Content. Ireland. This is how we cover this sections of the exam. Content out left. So please
Orlando Sequera: please, for for one more time. The Pmp. Exam. Is not solely based on the PIN book guide. It's based on the Exam. Content Outline: okay. It's based on the exam content outline. That's what you have to review. That's the content that you're gonna be. Test those
Orlando Sequera: a tasks that though all those are in all the different domain tasks and procedures that you see in the Exam. Continent. That's what you need to know for your Pmp. Exam. You will be tested on those not on the pinboard. Okay, alright, so let's go ahead and continue
Orlando Sequera: and we'll men. We'll.
Orlando Sequera: We'll review that again when we talk about the Exempt. So
Orlando Sequera: let's go ahead and continue.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: now we're going to talk about supporting team performance.
Orlando Sequera: It is really important.
Orlando Sequera: It is really, really really important to support the team in completing the work
Orlando Sequera: that needs to be completed for our project.
Orlando Sequera: You have to focus on 3 things to achieve this goal.
Orlando Sequera: to support the team in completing their work, you have to communicate and recommunicate the project objectives at all times. You also have to make sure that you have an environment.
Orlando Sequera: that in which they
Orlando Sequera: knowledge is flowing.
Orlando Sequera: and that you are also working in with a healthy dynamic for the team. That's why we have to address conflict, and we cannot let comfort linger. That's why we have to act as servant leaders
Orlando Sequera: to make sure that the team has all the materials, equipment, and supplies that they need to completely work.
Orlando Sequera: That's why we work so hard on continuous improvement, and making sure that the knowledge is sure
Orlando Sequera: we're trying to avoid single points of failure. So that's why we mentioned that previously. Okay. And whenever we have new team members, remember we're going to reset and go back to the forming stage in the talkman ladder, and we have to
Orlando Sequera: may have a positive approach. Welcome those new team members.
Orlando Sequera: We have. The oversight needed
Orlando Sequera: a level of oversight needed to help the team to go through storming as quickly as possible. So we can get to at least Norman, and they can be productive and always, always always remember the team that the ultimate goal that we have with the project is to deliver value.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: teams are typically more productive and driven when they have clear objectives.
Orlando Sequera: That is a true statement. That is a true statement. When they know exactly where we're going.
Orlando Sequera: Teams are
Orlando Sequera: driven, Teams are more productive. Remember you are gonna be working with highly intelligent people, and they need to know that direction. If that is ambiguous or not clear, then you're gonna have
Orlando Sequera: trouble. Okay, so it is important that we have that. We know where we're going, and that's what we do. As project managers. We we help the team in setting those goals. That's why we're working on all of this with all these different processes to
Orlando Sequera: help the team to be as productive and as successful as possible. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: project managers and the team can determine, join objectives that are challenging, yet
Orlando Sequera: feasible. It is important that we work with feasible objectives.
Orlando Sequera: Objective setting can be
Orlando Sequera: a conducted at the start of a project of a face, but it's usually done throughout the life Cycle of the project. Okay, we're following a usually done at the start of a product or face if we're following a predictive approach. But it can be done throughout the life cycle of the project.
Orlando Sequera: A. If we're following an adaptive approach
Orlando Sequera: in which the team is going to set the goals and commitments for a particular timeframe, which is what we call iteration or sprint.
Orlando Sequera: But we also need to know
Orlando Sequera: the actual levels of the thresholds and tolerance levels
Orlando Sequera: you to manage a variation without needing to escalate. That's why it's so important as a project manager that we know what is the driving
Orlando Sequera: constraint
Orlando Sequera: that
Orlando Sequera: your organization has, and we have typically. That's where we have something that probably some of you have heard before.
Orlando Sequera: It's about the trip
Orlando Sequera: train. So one of the
Orlando Sequera: 3 most important constraints that any project has
Orlando Sequera: are the first one is
Orlando Sequera: scope.
Orlando Sequera: Cope is the foundation of any project. Cope is king. Scope is everything. It is extremely important that that's why we started with scope and everything else that we build in our project
Orlando Sequera: the scope of our project. So that's one of the elements of the triple constraint. Think of it as a triangle. Then you have the other 2 are time or your schedule, and the other one is
Orlando Sequera: money or your budget. So to think of it as a triangle.
Orlando Sequera: and you need to understand in your organization which one is the most important constraint, is it? Is it time.
Orlando Sequera: in some cases that
Orlando Sequera: in some cases, some organizations that is the driving constraint we we have to deliver on time, and then what that means that in some cases all the other constraints are going to have to give in right it. Is it budget.
Orlando Sequera: or is it scope? And then inside of that triple constraint you have quality? Okay, so this is important. We need to know the tolerances
Orlando Sequera: a a. On which
Orlando Sequera: how do when do we have to involve decision makers? Well, what is the level of tolerance. What is the the threshold that we have in this? When in with this particular a aspects or areas of our project, we need to know that. Okay?
Orlando Sequera: So we need to understand those differences, and we need to understand those thresholds. It changes from organization to organization, and it also
Orlando Sequera: A. That's why we need to understand that
Orlando Sequera: organizational structure and culture as early as possible, and
Orlando Sequera: understand what are the things that we can do internally as a team. And When do we need help from our stakeholders? This is gonna change from organization to organization, and it's gonna change from industry to industry. Okay, there's not a right or run
Orlando Sequera: a answer. When it comes to to this.
Orlando Sequera: a a quick example it will be
Orlando Sequera: Project a has set, a tolerance. So the project manager can control any issues with the budget
Orlando Sequera: or
Orlando Sequera: time variants that are less than 5%.
Orlando Sequera: But any variance that is more than 5% needs to be escalated because it exceeds the threshold. So any variances that are less than 5, it's okay. We can address it internally
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to money, or when it comes to a schedule. Right? Let's we're. We. We have issues with the schedule, we're taking longer, but it's with it's 5% or less. We can solve it internally as a team. I don't need to get authorization or need to get another stakeholder involved. We can solve it as a team.
Orlando Sequera: but if it's more than 5%.
Orlando Sequera: We're overspending more than 5%, or we are delayed. The pro is delayed by more than 5%. Then we have to get someone involved. We need to know those thresholds again. Guidelines for that might come from the Pmo. If there's a pmo in place, or
Orlando Sequera: it.
Orlando Sequera: you can.
Orlando Sequera: Organizations have usually that well documented. So you need to get that information. Ask a peer, another project manager that can help you to understand those variances, because that's gonna dictate. When do you have to escalate? And when can you solve it internally? That level of tolerance.
Orlando Sequera: the project managers role? What do you do as a project manager. These answers that question, and we're talking about
Orlando Sequera: a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: What we do as project managers, we ally. We are going to make sure that the team is aligned with the due dates that our deliverables are produced on time.
Orlando Sequera: and that we're following the life cycle
Orlando Sequera: a approach and
Orlando Sequera: the benefits realization plan. So we're trying the plan that we set out for the schedule that we are allied. What is being done is align with those due dates that we have in the schedule
Orlando Sequera: we create a project management plan. We've been talking about that. That's one of the things that we do to be able to manage every single area of our project in an organized and systematic way.
Orlando Sequera: we create
Orlando Sequera: a and make sure that the creation and and and use of appropriate knowledge
Orlando Sequera: from the project and to the project is
Orlando Sequera: available.
Orlando Sequera: We also manage our project performance and changes to project activities. We keep, we're monitoring.
Orlando Sequera: we're comparing our actuals. What happens in the project? That's what we call project performance to what we plan for
Orlando Sequera: and based on those tolerances that we just mentioned, we have to make adjustments.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: and we may. It's about making decisions. We make integrated decisions about key changes that could impact the project.
Orlando Sequera: We
Orlando Sequera: again measure and Monitor project progress and take appropriate action.
Orlando Sequera: We collect
Orlando Sequera: information about the project, and we provide
Orlando Sequera: this information
Orlando Sequera: to stakeholders. This is where that project status report comes into play. And this is why we have
Orlando Sequera: daily, weekly by weekly monthly.
Orlando Sequera: a quarterly
Orlando Sequera: project status meetings with our stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: We make sure this is important at the end of the at the end of the project we make sure that
Orlando Sequera: all the product work has been completed, and we close
Orlando Sequera: the face or close the project as a whole project. Closure is important. One thing: when we, when we talk about product closure that I want you to remember, every single project needs to be closed. Everything. Your single project is going to be close. There are 2 ways that we can close the project, one that I, that ideally
Orlando Sequera: is the most common, for most of you is when the entire product work has been completed, our deliverables have been accepted, we document lessons learned.
Orlando Sequera: and we
Orlando Sequera: clothes.
Orlando Sequera: You need any contract items that are open. Everything is address, and probably close. All those documents are archived
Orlando Sequera: properly, and your project comes to an end or the face of a project. Another way of closing a project is through termination. Unfortunately it happens, but it still has to be properly done. Termination happens then it has to be documented the reasons for that termination, and
Orlando Sequera: we put the project to rest. But we always close projects, and
Orlando Sequera: i'm gonna share with you a few type of questions that you might encounter in the exam that are gonna test you exactly on that. It. So you don't fall for those for for for those little traps.
Orlando Sequera: and then we have to manage face transitions whenever necessary. This is part of George of
Orlando Sequera: as a project manager.
Orlando Sequera: This is something that you have to do as a Pm.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And now
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna go over some. Some of the team rose that
Orlando Sequera: and responsibilities when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: support performance
Orlando Sequera: the role in
Orlando Sequera: 1 one important aspect to keep in mind what I was mentioning before they grow the project manager. If we're following a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: A is fixed right. We have to do all those things, but if we are.
Orlando Sequera: it's more common to find in a hybrid model
Orlando Sequera: that we're going to combine centralized and distributed responsibilities when it comes to support the team.
Orlando Sequera: I think configuration and management or process for those environments in the in adaptive environments or agile environments is going to be unique, inverse in every specific context. But they're always going to be around
Orlando Sequera: the team. Okay, so going back to the example they have that we have been using for the class. Take a look at the a response up there, roll some responsibilities in
Orlando Sequera: the shops team.
Orlando Sequera: So in this hybrid project
Orlando Sequera: the project manager is going to oversee Project Mansion Plan integration, but it's going to delegate control of detail for the planning and delivery to
Orlando Sequera: the product owner.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: they blank is going to focus on building a cross-functional team a collaborative decision making environment and ensuring that the team can respond to changes. That's going to be
Orlando Sequera: the project manager. Okay?
Orlando Sequera: And the process rolled off.
Orlando Sequera: Blank it's gonna help the team to understand the Add-on mindset
Orlando Sequera: and use chrome processes
Orlando Sequera: that is going to be your scrum master or add your coach
Orlando Sequera: A. To develop the
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: It shops lifestyle center product.
Orlando Sequera: The blank is the local domain expert that plans
Orlando Sequera: how to do the work
Orlando Sequera: and the blank looks after valuation. So
Orlando Sequera: the team is the local domain expert
Orlando Sequera: that plans how to do the work. It's always a team, and the product owner is going to look after value Creation, because it is individual in charge of
Orlando Sequera: the scope of the project. Okay, this is for this hybrid approach, as you can see
Orlando Sequera: in the predictive approach. I'm gonna go back One slide
Orlando Sequera: in the predictive approach is more
Orlando Sequera: is centralized. This is for predictive, centralized. These are
Orlando Sequera: they? These tasks cannot be delegated. But if we're following a hybrid approach.
Orlando Sequera: the project manager is going to work with. Some of the tasks are going to be up to the project manager, but we have the team involved.
Orlando Sequera: and if we're working with the owner, we
Orlando Sequera: get their assistance and help as well. So that's how it works in a hybrid approach in a
Orlando Sequera: pure adaptive approach is is mostly going to be around the team.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, Their team focused those capabilities and responsibilities.
Orlando Sequera: One key aspect
Orlando Sequera: that is going to help us
Orlando Sequera: to support the performance
Orlando Sequera: is
Orlando Sequera: again about communication
Orlando Sequera: communication within the team.
Orlando Sequera: so
Orlando Sequera: it is super important to use the retrospectives.
Orlando Sequera: These pacific ceremonies that we have at the end of each iteration in which we go about what one will.
Orlando Sequera: what when, what, what can be improved? That is important, that we discuss, and we're going to find
Orlando Sequera: ways to communicate better. We' to pay close attention to those possible improvements on how to communicate better as a team
Orlando Sequera: we should communicate in group settings and face to face settings whenever possible. Make communication
Orlando Sequera: positive and regular with internal stakeholders, team members, and also external stakeholders, and use the technology and tools that you have available within the organization and gather feedback. It is super super super important that you pay attention to those lessons. Learn about communication
Orlando Sequera: and going back to that question, Where do we have those expectations about communication for the team? They're gonna be in the team Charter. That's why we created that as a team.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, not to add a burden to the team we created that so everybody knows. We meet every day at 80 at 8 am. Before we start the work day. Our working hours are from 8 am. To 5 Pm.
Orlando Sequera: If anyone a voicemail has to be returned within 30 min, an email has to be replied within 30 min. A message in the in the communications in the Channel in Microsoft teams has to be answered within
Orlando Sequera: 30 min, etc. All that's going to be spelled out in the team charter.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: a key aspect is
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to supporting high performance is feedback.
Orlando Sequera: Feedback is
Orlando Sequera: crucial communication, and it has to be done regularly
Orlando Sequera: in both directions. It's not just it. It it's also for us as Pm. Right, we. They're always ways to
Orlando Sequera: to improve in both directions, and we can give and receive feedback and give feedback to your team, meaning that
Orlando Sequera: they're gonna listen to you and vice versa. Right? It's not just it's not a it's not a one way street. It has to be a 2 way street. They can give you a feedback on how to. Maybe if we did. If if you did this way, the the if you kept this.
Orlando Sequera: if you did, this processes this way as the Pm. Maybe it's gonna be more beneficial to the team. So you also have to. You're gonna get feedback from the team. As well communicate in detail about
Orlando Sequera: technical
Orlando Sequera: performance aspects and soft performance aspects. We have to be specific. We have to be very specific, and we have to use the right approach sometimes.
Orlando Sequera: and this is my rule of thumb is, if it's about performance of an individual. I do that in an individual setting. I'm not going to do that in public right? So we. But if it's about recognition, someone date When I gave positive feedback to one of my team members, i'm going to make sure that not only the team members. Everyone everyone in the organization knows
Orlando Sequera: about that going back to recognition right? So
Orlando Sequera: a little bit of common sense. But make sure that you follow the best approach for that. Give the feedback in the timely manner. Don't. Wait, don't wait No.
Orlando Sequera: Give the feedback that that's that's gonna help you, and do it as regularly as needed.
Orlando Sequera: Another aspect that is important to keep in mind is to be able
Orlando Sequera: to support our
Orlando Sequera: teams accountability. We have been
Orlando Sequera: saying that ideally we want our team to
Orlando Sequera: take charge from what they're doing.
Orlando Sequera: Imagine in adaptive. It's a Must. Teams are self-organized and self-managed.
Orlando Sequera: but in predictive it's it's the trend. We are encouraging them to be more self organized when it comes to the work that has to be done, how to do the work, who should do the work.
Orlando Sequera: but
Orlando Sequera: that we have to have ways to promote visibility and collaboration. This is only going to work if everybody is pulling their weight, and
Orlando Sequera: by that I mean with great power comes great responsibility, and we have to have ways to
Orlando Sequera: A, or we use tools that are gonna help us to promote that
Orlando Sequera: level of accountability, and that comes with transparency. One way is to use what we call Camden Board, which is a graphic representation of the word
Orlando Sequera: of the work that is being done in different columns and
Orlando Sequera: quick example here that we see in the picture, even though we Don't have any legends. But these are the different states of the work. Let's assume that the first column is. These are the items that are in the to do list.
Orlando Sequera: and these are features that need to be completed by the team.
Orlando Sequera: the the column in the middle. We can assume that is, these are the items that are being worked on by the team
Orlando Sequera: right now.
Orlando Sequera: and the last column are the items. For example, right?
Orlando Sequera: This can change it. You can modify, add, remove, change, whatever the
Orlando Sequera: whatever titles make sense to your specific situation. Maybe the last column, we can say that these are the items that are complete.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So this helps with visibility, transparency collaboration, and, more importantly, with that
Orlando Sequera: accountability with our team members.
Orlando Sequera: Another important
Orlando Sequera: tool that we have available
Orlando Sequera: to get everyone on the same page on. Who's doing? What is the racing matrix?
Orlando Sequera: And remember what we said yesterday. The racing matrix is
Orlando Sequera: one way is one tool that we have
Orlando Sequera: to help us to minimize conflict as much as possible. One of the main it causes of conflict in project management in project teams is lack of clarity when it comes to rolls and responsibilities. This is why we create a race, a matrix. We don't do it just to
Orlando Sequera: a just because we do it. We create it to help us, and that's how it's going to help us. So.
Orlando Sequera: And it also helps with accountability.
Orlando Sequera: We to make sure that everyone knows what they're gonna be doing
Orlando Sequera: in the project
Orlando Sequera: for
Orlando Sequera: racy comes from a. They are stands for responsible. Who is the individual that is going to be doing the work
Orlando Sequera: or individuals, it can be more than one depending on the task who is accountable.
Orlando Sequera: and it's usually one. It's gonna be one person. And, by the way, the accountable responsible. We don't want to have the same individuals. So the difference between the 2
Orlando Sequera: is that the account
Orlando Sequera: party, if the individual has to make sure that the task gets done.
Orlando Sequera: For example, we have a task of
Orlando Sequera: installing exterior windows for a one our one story house
Orlando Sequera: responsible party. We have 2 individuals, and then the project manager is the accountable party.
Orlando Sequera: If
Orlando Sequera: the task
Orlando Sequera: doesn't get done on time.
Orlando Sequera: the person that has to answer for that is the project manager, not the 2 individuals that were assigned to the task. Why didn't get this? Why didn't? Why wasn't this task complete on time? Well.
Orlando Sequera: if the accountable party that has to provide the explanation. There might be a valid explanation. I'm not say that it doesn't happen it happens all the time. There might be a valid reason for that. But we need to understand who's going to be that kind of the accountable party. Those are these he's, or her neck on the line. They have to provide that explanation
Orlando Sequera: if the task doesn't get complete in time. Okay. But we also have
Orlando Sequera: consult the C stands for consult. We? This is where we involve experts.
Orlando Sequera: Maybe this
Orlando Sequera: windows are special. There are
Orlando Sequera: high great windows, or they're using a new technology. That is.com. We need to consult an expert, maybe someone from a third party, company, etc. That can help us with this specific type of window and then
Orlando Sequera: inform some stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: would like to be kept in the loop
Orlando Sequera: to know what's going on with those particular tasks, and that's what we mean by inform
Orlando Sequera: A. In a predictive setting. The race is gonna be created by the project manager. But if your phone
Orlando Sequera: approach it's either the project manager or the team lead.
Orlando Sequera: also known as the per master that is going to be working with the team in in regards to roles and responsibilities.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: hey? Also.
Orlando Sequera: we have to focus on knowledge as a team asset. This is important to support the team, but it can be often
Orlando Sequera: a overlooked
Orlando Sequera: a knowledge.
Orlando Sequera: As we know. We have been mentioning that before a.
Orlando Sequera: we have 2 types of knowledge. Basically we have explicit knowledge. This is whatever we can codify and can put in a document, and it's very easy to understand. We can document it, we can use it and retrieve it to collaborate. But we also have
Orlando Sequera: tacit knowledge or tribal knowledge.
Orlando Sequera: This is what comes with experience.
Orlando Sequera: This is hard to articulate, like teaching someone how to play a musical instrument, for example, or or how to to work within the organization. Imagine if you are a new project manager, a new organization, and there is another project manager that has been there for many, many years, that it
Orlando Sequera: to a. As we say here in the State, to
Orlando Sequera: probes of your the organization that tribal knowledge is, it's not going to be found in any. It comes with experience, and you're going to develop your own. A tacit knowledge for this
Orlando Sequera: experience. It's about
Orlando Sequera: the best practices, etc., but it's also a type of knowledge. So we have to treat knowledge as an asset, not only to the team and the organization, and we do that with lessons learn. We document that with lessons learned as much as possible.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: for that reason it is important, too.
Orlando Sequera: Incorporate as much as possible opportunities for knowledge. Transfer. This can be done through networking
Orlando Sequera: A. We can have in some cases something that is called a community of practice, which is a group of
Orlando Sequera: people that get together, and they want to learn more for a about a specific topic, for example, agile they want to. They get together.
Orlando Sequera: and companies are promoting and fostering this more and more and more to a help their
Orlando Sequera: team members and employees to learn more about specific topics that are gonna be beneficial to the entire organization. It could be business analysis. It could be public speaking.
Orlando Sequera: It could be a adjunct, for example, so, or something that is going to help the organization. And these communities are practice. They people that would like to learn more about those topics they get together, and they start sharing knowledge. Another example is
Orlando Sequera: your If you're a member of Pmi, your local Pmi chapter.
Orlando Sequera: It's an example of a community of practice, and in this case it will be the topic will be project management. But it could also be in in meetings, seminars
Orlando Sequera: through training.
Orlando Sequera: and even it
Orlando Sequera: Job, shadowing or work, shadowing just pairing people that are experience with their people that are starting their career in a specific field, so they can learn and increase the level of knowledge. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: so knowledge is important
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to knowledge management.
Orlando Sequera: This has 3 levels.
Orlando Sequera: We have it at the individual level, which is mainly what we're gonna be focusing on in our
Orlando Sequera: E with the project team members. This is where the each team member individually, they learn the knowledge through either research, collaboration or training and working with other team members.
Orlando Sequera: We have knowledge management at the project level.
Orlando Sequera: What's needed to complete
Orlando Sequera: to
Orlando Sequera: for the growth.
Orlando Sequera: And we're going to transfer this knowledge from other projects
Orlando Sequera: you in. Let's just learn from other projects. And we're also going to check in with the project management office. If we have one available
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: the higher level of knowledge management is at the organizational level.
Orlando Sequera: This is what's needed to manage collections of projects and pro and and programs that we call portfolios, and also collections of projects that we call programs as we cover on day one
Orlando Sequera: and these are. This is knowledge that can be applied at the organizational level. That's why those
Orlando Sequera: not it. A lessons learned repositories
Orlando Sequera: are going to be.
Orlando Sequera: They are so useful because
Orlando Sequera: the entire organization can benefit
Orlando Sequera: from those noted lessons from repositories.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: at this point in your project. When the work is being done.
Orlando Sequera: it is important to keep your team motivated. It is to it is important to work a motivation. Okay, this is where this is a make or break moment for any project that work is being done. People are working, so Don't let. If
Orlando Sequera: e I've seen it in many cases that we start team predicting starts, for they start very strong with the kick off, and everybody's a excited about the project.
Orlando Sequera: But then, when we start the project work, we we encounter some challenges, and then the level of motivation starts increasing. It is our job as project managers to keep the team motivated so, for that is
Orlando Sequera: important to motivate the team, Motivate the team, provide. Opportunity is, do not impose obligations. Right.
Orlando Sequera: Give them feedback.
Orlando Sequera: Make sure, if you're working with
Orlando Sequera: a with with a virtual team setting, make sure that you are there with them, that you are
Orlando Sequera: providing that oversight, helping them. Being a through server leader.
Orlando Sequera: hey? Making sure that if they're a experience and difficulties, make sure that you are there to help them to navigate those challenges, give them the training opportunities might be that, remember, I have never seen in my in
Orlando Sequera: close to 20 years now I've never seen any situation in which right of the get go. We have all this skill set that is needed. Our team members have to either self, through self learning, have to learn some of the skill set, or they have to be sent to training. And the more complex the the scope.
Orlando Sequera: the the worse it gets. So
Orlando Sequera: give them training opportunities. Okay, and also
Orlando Sequera: have those moments for to to to reassess, to self, to self, assess and reflect on what can be done better? How can we overcome these challenges, so be supportive. Be there to motivate your team. You're the main tier leader for your team.
Orlando Sequera: Please do not here. The first one, the first one. I have seen this more often than not, especially with project managers that are new to project management
Orlando Sequera: do not become a hindrance to your team. Do not
Orlando Sequera: overwhelmed them with meetings.
Orlando Sequera: Do not overwhelm them with work interruptions.
Orlando Sequera: I'm gonna give you. Actually, i'm gonna ask you quickly. How long do you think that it takes in average
Orlando Sequera: for
Orlando Sequera: the average person to be productive when they start working on a complex task. How long do you think it takes for someone to start productive when they start working a complex task in minutes.
Orlando Sequera: And i'm gonna open up the chat so.
Orlando Sequera: for the chat is open. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: All right. I'm going to post the chat, so some of you get it. It tastes about 45 min in average. Some people might take less. Some people might take a little bit more more, but in average takes
Orlando Sequera: that's close to an hour, right? So imagine every time. If if our team members are working in a complex task
Orlando Sequera: Every time that we interrupt our team, the clock resets
Orlando Sequera: and they have to
Orlando Sequera: go back. So so the the product productivity is is is is is lost tremendously. That's why we do not want to overwhelm them with working interruptions. That's why we, as the Pm. We're the spokesperson of the team any, and this goes not only to you. This goes to
Orlando Sequera: stakeholders. They might call directly the team members and ask questions. Nope. You have to educate your stakeholders that if they need an information about the project they come to you. You are the point of contact. This the main point of contact for the project team is
Orlando Sequera: the Pm: okay. If it's an agile team, it will be the team, lead or scrum master mainly. But if it's a if it's a predict. If you follow it, a predictive approach, it will be the project manager, or even in an adaptive approach. If you're working with a product manager. It can be shared between the
Orlando Sequera: the team, lead the scrum master and the project manager, but not the team members. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: do not distract them with none project work and do not force group activities. Do not be a hindrance to your teams, as I mentioned before in this, more often than not, unfortunately, and that's something that we have to learn.
Orlando Sequera: And we have to educate
Orlando Sequera: your stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: that with
Orlando Sequera: provide them with that awareness that we need to let the people that are doing the work. We need to let them do the work. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: And also it is important to
Orlando Sequera: keep the team focus on delivering value that is really important. Prioritize coherence and collaboration and consensus that is crucial.
Orlando Sequera: Keep the talkman letter
Orlando Sequera: in my
Orlando Sequera: If there are changes to your team team members
Orlando Sequera: leave, and people people get promoted. People leave people with people get laid off, new people come in, so that happens, change is going to happen. You have to provide the oversight to your team
Orlando Sequera: to make sure that they navigate through that 4 min storming stages as quickly as possible.
Orlando Sequera: Welcome team member new team members
Orlando Sequera: with a positive in in a positive way they there is new experience, and and there, that's a source of new knowledge. So welcome them with with open arms, and also make sure that they understand
Orlando Sequera: the prior goals and agreements. That team charter.
Orlando Sequera: collaborate, collaborate with them how to how they can find and add value.
Orlando Sequera: and navigate any disruptions
Orlando Sequera: and conflict constructively.
Orlando Sequera: You also have to
Orlando Sequera: make sure that you keep
Orlando Sequera: your artifacts that you have been created
Orlando Sequera: up to date.
Orlando Sequera: Are your compliance and practice standards for artifact maintenance of
Orlando Sequera: gonna ask that question. That is also part of continuous improvement. Make sure that you are that you have those artifacts in place. Make sure that you're
Orlando Sequera: project
Orlando Sequera: artifacts and documentation is up to date
Orlando Sequera: and make sure that you are using any guidelines a that are needed. If, for example, if you're working with
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: any European country, make sure that you or any other country part of the European Union, I should say, and the information and you're working is sharing information, and your you have offices over there. Make sure that you are. G Gdp are compliant, for example, or if you're working with
Orlando Sequera: your project, has to do with health care here in the Us. I'm. Sure that in in some European countries they have similar regulations of a patient, a
Orlando Sequera: protection.
Orlando Sequera: A. Here is known as Hipaa Law. You gotta make sure that you are compliant with that, and your artifacts are maintained, and they are compliant with any regulation that is applicable. That's why I would review Opas and enterprise environmental factors.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so
Orlando Sequera: make sure that you keep your your file storage and organize and version it comes with. We have
Orlando Sequera: version, control and a configuration management. Make sure that you're compliant with any data protection, any any leg leg legislation, any loss, and it regulations.
Orlando Sequera: and make sure that you maintain your artifacts in preparation
Orlando Sequera: for archiving. This happens at the end of your project. Those artifacts are going to be leveraged in the future for other projects.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So what we have cover so far is
Orlando Sequera: we have talked about
Orlando Sequera: how to manage communications effectively.
Orlando Sequera: providing information and updates effectively empowering team members and stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: building a team.
Orlando Sequera: engaging and supporting virtual teams.
Orlando Sequera: managing project artifacts and determine the properties of mythology, methods, and practices.
Orlando Sequera: This these are the
Orlando Sequera: Exam. Content outline. Remember what you need to what you're gonna be tested on in the Pmp. Exam. This is how this content is aligned to the Exam. Content Outline
Orlando Sequera: All right, and
Orlando Sequera: before we move on with the next topic which is evaluating Project progress. I'm. Going to take a look at
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: questions that are in the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: So question, please explain the difference between scope and objective scope is the work that you have to complete in your project in order to produce
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: they deliverables associated with the objectives. Your rejects are part of the vision of the project. Right? What you're trying to deliver. But the scope is, they work that you have to complete to produce
Orlando Sequera: the requirements
Orlando Sequera: of your project
Orlando Sequera: Another question: what is an example of a project? Status report?
Orlando Sequera: Well, you have.
Orlando Sequera: We didn't have any one of the slides you have?
Orlando Sequera: Usually you call it. The pen depends on the interest on the on the organization, on the industry, but it is a report in which your
Orlando Sequera: you're gonna be reporting status on on what reporting status on the schedule of your project. So you might have milestones, and you can show a percentage of completion against those mountains of your project. You're gonna show the financials how well your budget is doing right where you are with some metrics that we're going to cover
Orlando Sequera: a little bit later about project progress, right? What? You're gonna You're gonna be using a for
Orlando Sequera: your budget. You're gonna be using your cost performance index, which is a metric that shows how healthy your project budget is. And then for the scheduled use another metric that is called scheduled Performance index, so
Orlando Sequera: that, and then another section commonly found in most project status reports is going to be about risks.
Orlando Sequera: You have to with register any risk that materialize what is being done. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: But Of course, that is
Orlando Sequera: just an example.
Orlando Sequera: It can change.
Orlando Sequera: Can you elaborate on make integrated decisions
Orlando Sequera: about key changes that impact the project well and make decisions on key changes, changes to the scope, changes to the schedule changes to the to the budget going through the integrated change control process.
Orlando Sequera: because the in there are integrated decisions because they're going to impact every single area of your project. So that's how the decision making process it has to be holistic.
Orlando Sequera: Every decision that we make is going to have an impact on every. It is going to have a an impact on their tire. The entire project
Orlando Sequera: There's a question artifact question.
Orlando Sequera: Does the risk management plan get updated when a risk has passed?
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: I think that you mean when a risk has occurred?
Orlando Sequera: Probably
Orlando Sequera: example, brick prices may be high, and then the bricks were procure at a good price. So there's no longer a risk here.
Orlando Sequera: Update something. Your that is more an assumption than a risk.
Orlando Sequera: So I would say, in that case I will update my assumptions.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: Maybe I had the assumption that Rick Prices were going to be at a good price. Now, we'll update my assumption, not break. Prices are a increasing. That's what I would do.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Another question.
Orlando Sequera: When team members have very different functions that change with tasks.
Orlando Sequera: Then that's the race. You need to be a live document to show the new task actions that get added. Yes, If you incorporate new tasks, make sure that you incorporate that you decide who's going to be responsible for it's going to be a kind of one who needs to be consulted. Who needs to be informed? Ask you.
Orlando Sequera: update the races. So the race is gonna it's also a living document.
Orlando Sequera: Another question. If you're working on multiple functions, and you are overseeing a team that has projects and operational work. Is there anything you suggest
Orlando Sequera: like? Should we help them to organize? So just to to remove the operational work as much as possible. No.
Orlando Sequera: this my recommendation in that situation.
Orlando Sequera: a work with the functional manager. Okay, this happens all the time. So work with the functional manager to understand the availability of the resources they are going. You have to go through negotiation through that.
Orlando Sequera: They gotta do their operational work, and they also gotta work on the project. But you need to understand what percentage of availability do you have with your resources? Is it 50% of their time? Is it a 20% of their time
Orlando Sequera: on a weekly basis? So work with your functional manager to understand resource availability.
Orlando Sequera: Another question: Will team members vacation, time be considered? Risk?
Orlando Sequera: No, not necessarily we. This is why we do resource planning, and one aspect of resource. Planning is resource calendars.
Orlando Sequera: and in the resource calendar you shouldn't have information in
Orlando Sequera: that will tell you when resources are available, including people when they take vacation. This has to be up to date. So you don't schedule a task to be done when someone is on vacation, so that that's something that you shouldn't.
Orlando Sequera: that that's something that you can plan for you. Shouldn't be at risk.
Orlando Sequera: You can control that.
Orlando Sequera: What does the termination documentation look like when we get to term to pro your closure. We'll talk about. That
Orlando Sequera: is the knowledge management you are talking about normally managed by the Organization's Knowledge manager, or are they 2 different things by the same name. Well.
Orlando Sequera: if you have in your organization and knowledge management manager, they are going to help with this knowledge. So yes, if you have one in in your organization. They're going to be working with this that that we mentioned. But in some cases they don't all the organizations don't have it.
Orlando Sequera: What do you
Orlando Sequera: same thing?
Orlando Sequera: Curate knowledge applies in all product types. Yes, the Pmo. What's responsible in
Orlando Sequera: for archive in the info, if it's predictive? Yes, a 100. But if we're following up on an adaptive approach, we can get help from team members.
Orlando Sequera: But you mentioned setting up rules in the communications are not in the communication charter in the team. Charter
Orlando Sequera: return calls within 30 min respond to text. By this time I feel all that contradicts do not not disrupt productivity. No, it doesn't contradict, because you're gonna set blocks right. You can plan your work to understand that
Orlando Sequera: you can plan your work, but you can set
Orlando Sequera: time during the day between. For example, this is what I do
Orlando Sequera: between 8 and
Orlando Sequera: 10 am. This is something that I have done, not what I regularly do. But I said, blocks of time
Orlando Sequera: from 8 to 10 we have all the meetings
Orlando Sequera: that we need to have, and then
Orlando Sequera: n to 12. For example, team members are gonna be working and they they are not gonna get disrupted. They're gonna be working. And then from and when they come back from lunch from one to 3. For example, they are not gonna get disrupted, so you can divide the work in the
Orlando Sequera: with your teams, so they are able to to be productive, depending on what they're doing. But you can plan a an account for that. So it so. You minimize disruptions as much as possible.
Orlando Sequera: I was just giving examples about
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: the the 30 min
Orlando Sequera: it's just it was just an example.
Orlando Sequera: Are you going to give us any test questions? I'd be mentioning as much as possible. Would you have it in front of you already? With test Prep. I would recommend you to take questions in test prep. And take your time. This it's better to do it as a team, I mean. I'm sorry as an individual
Orlando Sequera: in regards to not forcing group activities. Do you mean outside activities? Not pretending to a project
Orlando Sequera: mostly. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: should there? And another question. Should there any be there any limit or training hours for each team member and project live well, do you have to? It depends on the project, right? So
Orlando Sequera: it depends on the project you're going to need more training in. In some situations you're going to need
Orlando Sequera: less training for team members. So it's. It depends on the actual project.
Orlando Sequera: all right. So we are going to.
Orlando Sequera: If they get them in a break.
Orlando Sequera: and when we come back we're going to continue with our content.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: we're going to talk about evaluating project progress. Let me
Orlando Sequera: your entire a. We. We need you to be focused on that on that topic. It is important. So we are going to take a 10 min break. Enjoy, and we'll be back in 10 min.
You
the
you!
Oh.
He! He!
You
the
you
Orlando Sequera: all right. Welcome back, everyone
Orlando Sequera: We
Orlando Sequera: going to continue with our content.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: and now we're going to talk about
Orlando Sequera: evaluating project progress.
Orlando Sequera: Remember that during planning right we were able to come up with baselines for a project.
Orlando Sequera: We
Orlando Sequera: understood the thresholds that we have.
Orlando Sequera: including test and evaluation procedures that were established. And now.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: performance, we have to.
Orlando Sequera: We have one main goal, which is to understand
Orlando Sequera: the variance that exists between our
Orlando Sequera: actual performance
Orlando Sequera: compared to those plans that we created in the beginning of the project. Okay, this is what we're going to compare actual against plan values.
Orlando Sequera: A quick example, simple to understand.
Orlando Sequera: We
Orlando Sequera: let's go back to the example of building our our house a a one-story house right.
Orlando Sequera: and we laid out in planning. We laid out the schedule and we laid out the budget
Orlando Sequera: for the house, and we laid out the resources, the quality, the risk approach every single area. Right? That's what we did in planning. Those are our plans. But now we have.
Orlando Sequera: We're at a point that the work is getting done. We have our a team members working the the construction workers mainly, and engineers and architects and
Orlando Sequera: plumbers and electricians and a roof specialist. They're working all together in building the actual house. Things are happening. It's no longer planning. We are
Orlando Sequera: executing the project. We are a working on the the team is working on the actual project and we are managing the project. Okay, so this is what we're going to compare. Okay, we said that for
Orlando Sequera: to complete
Orlando Sequera: the activity of
Orlando Sequera: completing the entire, a plumbing for the house was gonna take
Orlando Sequera: a 2 months, for example, or
Orlando Sequera: a month.
Orlando Sequera: That's what we plan for. So now we started working on the project, and then.
Orlando Sequera: if we wanna check the progress. Okay, right now, it's been if they number 15, it's it's been
Orlando Sequera: a little bit over 2 weeks. Where are we at
Orlando Sequera: with our a, with our plumbing
Orlando Sequera: installation activity? So are we right? We were supposed to be. Are we behind schedule, or are we ahead of schedule? Maybe we are ahead of schedule. Maybe we have installed 75%
Orlando Sequera: of the plumbing.
Orlando Sequera: or maybe we have only been able to install 20. So that's what we do when we compare the the actual performance we're comparing what is actually happening in the project to what we plan for. Okay work, we because
Orlando Sequera: with the plans in some cases we're gonna be aligned with the plans. But chances are that it's gonna be there's gonna be a variance between what actually happens compared to what we plan for. Okay, that's how we measure performance a
Orlando Sequera: one key aspect. You can pretty much measure everything but one key aspect.
Orlando Sequera: A. It's it's very important. Only measure what matters right, and then it's usually these areas of the project scope.
Orlando Sequera: the percentage of the work completed.
Orlando Sequera: Right? What is the percentage of the work completed on that? This what you gonna show. By the way, this is what you're gonna show in your project. Status reports.
Orlando Sequera: Any change requests that are coming that have come in some changes that we have to implement
Orlando Sequera: again. We're gonna we're gonna we're going to monitor performance against the schedule Ha! In regards to the duration where we at
Orlando Sequera: with in regards to iteration. Are we ahead of scheduled? Are we behind scheduled? Are we right on time with our project activities? What about the cost? Let's go back to those plumbing activities and starting the plumbing for the house.
Orlando Sequera: Are we
Orlando Sequera: spending what we said that we were going to be spending in planning?
Orlando Sequera: Are we overspending. Are we under spending? Are we right on Budget right? We have to
Orlando Sequera: provide that's part of the information that we're going to provide to our
Orlando Sequera: stakeholders in this status report. And then what about the resources? Do we have the team allocation that we need
Orlando Sequera: it? What about this is where we're going to be monitoring the performance of our vendors. Right? We create a contract. We're working with multiple vendors. This is where we're gonna have. We're gonna be monitoring their performance as well, and also the performance of those contracts that we sign with those vendors.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna also be paying attention to our number of defects. Our quality super important constraint of any project. The number of defects that we have. That's why we're using a quality approaches, and we briefly mentioned quality mainly with following the quality guidance of quality standards and
Orlando Sequera: mention quality assurance. We're gonna we're gonna do a deeper dive when it comes to quality and then risk
Orlando Sequera: What risks have materialized? Have we? What have we done? Have our responses worked as intended to? We have any residual risk or any secondary risk post a response implementation. So that's how we measure and track performance.
Orlando Sequera: If we are comparing mainly actual what's going on, what's happening in reality? To what?
Orlando Sequera: M. 4. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And we're going to report on that performance. As I mentioned before.
Orlando Sequera: this is what we're going to to provide to our stakeholders masked on schedule. How well are we tracking against the mountains or significant events of our projects?
Orlando Sequera: We're going to also report on quality the number of defects.
Orlando Sequera: what we plan for, and then a key technique that is going to help us to understand the health of our scheduled and also the health of our of our project. Budget is earned value management that boils down to that. We have specific metrics.
Orlando Sequera: Cpi and Spi, mainly, that are going to help us to understand the health of our projects we're going to. We're going to go. We're going to do a deeper dive about it and running management
Orlando Sequera: with the don't be e we're gonna get to that. I promise you that we're gonna get to that. We're gonna be able to analyze variances. And that's also gonna be a report
Orlando Sequera: work Performance reports
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: As the work gets done we're going to be able to produce broad data like we have completed.
Orlando Sequera: I want to explain quickly what I work. Performance report is, we have completed
Orlando Sequera: 10, a
Orlando Sequera: 10 walls of the exterior walls of the house, and we have completed 5 windows so far.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: we completed 25 of the landscaping.
Orlando Sequera: That is broad data that is going to be produced. And we have
Orlando Sequera: 5 defects
Orlando Sequera: road data
Orlando Sequera: That is not really
Orlando Sequera: well. It's raw data. But you need to add, do you need to transform that raw data into information? And in order to do that, what you have to do is to add context. And that's where
Orlando Sequera: you those are. Your actions right? 5 defects 5 windows completed
Orlando Sequera: 75% of the roof has been completed. Well, those are your access. But what did you plan for? Okay, by now we should have completed
Orlando Sequera: 10 windows, not 50, okay. So you at context. And when you add context to that broad data. It becomes information. And then that information we put in a reporting format, and that's what we call work performance reports.
Orlando Sequera: The status reports are one type of a word performance report, and for add their projects we use dashboards.
Orlando Sequera: Member an information radiator that represents the status of the work.
Orlando Sequera: That is one way to keep track of performance, because we're gonna have our list of items that are in the to do list, the ones that are being work that are being worked on, and they once that have been completed, we can track project progress that way. Okay, you tailor this to your needs, but it's applicable to both
Orlando Sequera: predictive, adaptive, and hybrid.
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to the scope. As I have said, this is the most important aspect of any project.
Orlando Sequera: Everything is built around this cup of your project.
Orlando Sequera: You have to
Orlando Sequera: monitor the scope, following a different approach. If you're using a predictive approach, remember that we have baselines. We are going to have an approved version
Orlando Sequera: in this case of this code that is only going to be changed through the integrated change control process. Okay, and we have the corresponding Wbs with the Associated Wbs Dictionary. So the way we monitor the scope is that we're going to
Orlando Sequera: compare the completion. What has act our actions against
Orlando Sequera: the scope, Baseline? That's how we monitor scope in.
Orlando Sequera: If we're following a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: then
Orlando Sequera: in agile is a little bit different.
Orlando Sequera: Remember that the scope is not fixed as it is in predictive.
Orlando Sequera: So this is gonna be evolving. The scope is going to be evolving, for from the nature of the roadmap that you had at the beginning of the project
Orlando Sequera: it to a the release backlogs and the iteration backlog. So you use a proto backlog that is going to be changing throughout the life cycle of the problem, the project
Orlando Sequera: and you have to review that every prioritize as needed. Your per backlog is constantly going to be changing, and what you have to do is to make sure that your
Orlando Sequera: for for the backlog is prioritized at all times. By that I mean that the features that at the most value are always at the top. The individual in charge of that is the product owner, but
Orlando Sequera: we have to work with them to make sure that that gets done
Orlando Sequera: every
Orlando Sequera: before every iteration starts. Okay, and the way that you do that is to check the user stories and the definition of done
Orlando Sequera: against the customer feedback and your product requirements.
Orlando Sequera: and when it comes to hybrid it's a combination of the 2
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: an important aspect that has to happen that has to happen here at this point.
Orlando Sequera: Scope, validation.
Orlando Sequera: This is something that happens regardless of the approach. We're always going to have to validate
Orlando Sequera: what we build in our project
Orlando Sequera: against what the customer wanted. Hey, we're gonna we are going to do that, regardless of the approach, we always gonna have scope validation. The main difference between
Orlando Sequera: predictive and agile is that usually scope validation in predictive that happens at the end of the project right? When everything has been built.
Orlando Sequera: then we have
Orlando Sequera: everything is done following that big Big Bang approach. Right? We have a scope validation. We're going to review a with our.
Orlando Sequera: we actually actually actually there are 2 steps for that. We do it internally. First, we do scope verification. That's when the team members internally review that all the requirements were met and built and all the functionality, all this code that was agreed upon was
Orlando Sequera: indeed completed. That is, if we doing it with a team internally. We call that scope verification. And then, if we pass that that process successfully, we move on to scope validation. That is gonna be done with the customer. We're gonna do the same. We're gonna
Orlando Sequera: a show to our customers what we build based on the
Orlando Sequera: the requirements based on the scope that we were able to define for our project. And this is where that
Orlando Sequera: artifact that we talked about when we were defining the scope that we mentioned a a couple of days ago, there was the requirements, traceability, matrix. It's actually requirements, traceability, matrix. This is where that
Orlando Sequera: a requirements traceability, matrix is gonna come handy because we're gonna be able to show. Well missed, Mr. Mrs. Customer, we build the house
Orlando Sequera: with metal roof, because that was the requirement that we had. These are the sign up on the requirements, and this is the house with concrete walls, exterior walls. We have carpet floors for the rooms, and we have tile for the common areas of the house, and we have
Orlando Sequera: from porch we have a back porch. We have this pool based on those requirements, and we also have to show the scope statement
Orlando Sequera: A as well to make. This is how we perform that validation. Everything has to be signed off, and this is where we a showcase to them what we build, and more importantly, get their acceptance. This is an important step before we can close our project. Okay, this might drive changes.
Orlando Sequera: This might drive changes, but those changes might be
Orlando Sequera: are going to be evaluated, and if there is an impact
Orlando Sequera: to the budget we can, we? We have to review that. But the goal is to get acceptance from the customers, and in agile
Orlando Sequera: is very similar. It's very similar. We're going to use acceptance Criteria a: we're going to use.
Orlando Sequera: which is a specific in in predictive. I forgot to mention that we have acceptance criteria for every single requirement. That's how we do it. But in agile it's a little bit different. We have acceptance criteria for the specific requirement for the use of story in this case.
Orlando Sequera: But we also have another checklist, and that's how you have to to think of the acceptance criteria and the definition of tone. They are checklist that we have to check the boxes.
Orlando Sequera: And, by the way, the acceptance criteria is the first box that you're going to find in the definition of done.
Orlando Sequera: So you gotta be able to check all the boxes.
Orlando Sequera: and we do this multiple times. This co validation happens multiple times throughout the agile project, because we do it
Orlando Sequera: by iteration. Every duration that ends. We're gonna have a scope validation. And this happens in the spring or Iteration Review meeting, where we show case to our we we do a demo, we showcase to our stakeholders what we built.
Orlando Sequera: and we're trying to get their their acceptance, and we're going to be able to document that sign of.
Orlando Sequera: So in essence, if you paid close attention, you might be wondering. Wow! At the end of the day.
Orlando Sequera: Predictive and agile are not that different?
Orlando Sequera: They're not what changes mostly is the frequency, because in predictive and both in predictive interactive, we do, planning
Orlando Sequera: both in predictive and active, we do the development
Orlando Sequera: in both. In predictive interactive, we do, testing
Orlando Sequera: both in predictive and interactive with those code, verification and scope. Validation at the end
Orlando Sequera: in both approaches. What changes is the frequency in predict? If we do it.
Orlando Sequera: the planning face is long.
Orlando Sequera: then the development phase is wrong. We spent, we take all the time to produce our requirements, and then this conversation happens at the end. After all, the deliberals are built
Orlando Sequera: for an adaptive in agile. We do it multiple times. We do it every at
Orlando Sequera: one iteration at a time. We're having multiple planning sessions. We're having multiple development sessions. We're having multiple a scope validation sessions. So. But in essence, what changes is the frequency? Okay? And for hybrid is a combination of these 2. You can do it
Orlando Sequera: some areas of the scope. You might follow an agile approach some areas of scope. You can follow a predictive approach, and that's what we mean by hybrid.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to this call validation. This is the important aspect we have to make sure that we we have to take into account
Orlando Sequera: this curve statement.
Orlando Sequera: and the key aspect in agile is going to be the definition of Don.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: So that is
Orlando Sequera: in this case, what is the artifact that determines the acceptance criteria cisco statement? Because this co-statement co covers the description of the scope.
Orlando Sequera: and then in the adaptive approach is the definition of that. We have to be able to meet the definition of done
Orlando Sequera: that's
Orlando Sequera: covers the actual acceptance criteria as well.
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to measuring the scheduled performance. We have multiple methods depending on the approach. We have game charts, so we can review
Orlando Sequera: the performance, tracking over time
Orlando Sequera: for all of them for predictive, agile, and hybrid. We can use earn value management.
Orlando Sequera: This is where we track custom.
Orlando Sequera: A and
Orlando Sequera: and duration scheduled duration performance. We have quality metrics, and we also have variance analysis
Orlando Sequera: for the 3 of them. And then for agile and hybrid, we can compare the work that has been completed
Orlando Sequera: per iteration to what we committed
Orlando Sequera: at the beginning of the iteration.
Orlando Sequera: We review the completed work in the spring, demos at the end of each iteration, and then we can determine
Orlando Sequera: any
Orlando Sequera: improvements for subsequent iterations during the retrospective. Okay. And we can conduct schedule reviews to conduct retrospective discoveries
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: schedule management tools.
Orlando Sequera: This is for predictive.
Orlando Sequera: If we need to
Orlando Sequera: change course. If we need to act on the schedule.
Orlando Sequera: there are multiple ways that we can do that. We can
Orlando Sequera: make adjustments to schedule, to to reflect, resource and supply demand.
Orlando Sequera: We can optimize it as well as we cover with resource, moving and resource leveling they
Orlando Sequera: we get we one we can optimize for scheduled, as we mentioned before, when we talked about scheduled, using resource, moving and resource leveling from the resource perspective resource, moving to make sure that we're not, for example, working
Orlando Sequera: or resource leveling that we're not making people work 80 h a week. That's how we can complete the schedule if we have people working 80 h a week, including weekends. Right? No, let's level that make sure that we are within 3 determined limits.
Orlando Sequera: It could be 45, 50 h a week, whatever. Your this is just an example, just an example to whatever predetermined limits your organization has in place. So you're making the best use for your resources and then moving.
Orlando Sequera: Do you? Do you want to make sure that during your scheduled you don't have resources working 75 h a week, or or 50 h a week, and then you have other weeks in which they're working only 5 or 10 h. Do you want to make the best use of your resources. That's one way that you have
Orlando Sequera: 2
Orlando Sequera: optimized your schedule and the other one is what we cover with scheduled compression techniques.
Orlando Sequera: And here we can use fast tracking, which is
Orlando Sequera: doing activities or performing activities. And normally we will do it sequentially. We can then do. We're gonna do it in parallel now, at the same time. But of course, taking into account that this can improve this can at risk to our prom to our project
Orlando Sequera: because it can have an impact on quality, for example, or crashing with J. As we said before, adding additional resources to some to activities that are part of the critical path. So you can then shorten the duration. Because this is these tools are
Orlando Sequera: the answers to some questions that you might have, you might get a scenario question that might tell you. Okay, you your project a. For example, You have been able to determine that
Orlando Sequera: a your schedule is 6 months. But
Orlando Sequera: suddenly one of the stakeholders tells you. Well.
Orlando Sequera: we do not have 6 months. We have
Orlando Sequera: 4 months. We need to complete. We have a hard deadline. We have a contract sign, and we need to complete this product in 4 months. What can we do?
Orlando Sequera: What can you do to solve that situation, and the answer is going to be: You're going to be depending on what it is you're going to be using these tools. They may give you some hints on. You can do it from both perspective, what it's going to be between
Orlando Sequera: resource, optimization or schedule compression techniques. That's how you solve that problem. That's how you have to approach the exam. That's how they can ask you about these tools. They'll give you a scenario, and then they're gonna ask. They're gonna throw a careful. Okay, You determine that your schedule was
Orlando Sequera: a 8 months. We don't have 8 months. What can we have? 6 months? What can we do? This is the answer, okay, using these tools
Orlando Sequera: Also.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to performance
Orlando Sequera: A,
Orlando Sequera: it's about comparing, as I mentioned before, what has been completed.
Orlando Sequera: the actuals compared to what we said that we were gonna do. This is also applicable to agile projects. Okay, we do it. It's the same principle. Basically but what we compare, and remember that in agile we do not have percentages of completion in agile is either done or not done.
Orlando Sequera: We have, in order to say that something has been complete. We have to check every single item in the acceptance criteria.
Orlando Sequera: and then every single item which is a checklist, every single item in the definition of done. That's how we can say that something as a user story, a requirement has been completed in agile.
Orlando Sequera: So and, by the way, the acceptance criteria is one of the check boxes that you have in your definition of done, we have to check the acceptance. Criteria has been completed
Orlando Sequera: the way we visualize the performance in agile or hybrid.
Orlando Sequera: It's a little bit different. We use dashboards that show us
Orlando Sequera: a progress in
Orlando Sequera: in regards to the protocol.
Orlando Sequera: and we use something that is called Burn down or burn up charts. We're going to go in a little bit more detail into those we display this information
Orlando Sequera: using information radiators which we keep mentioning. And we're going to watch a video about information radiators.
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: that are located in specific places. We can have a digital version of it, or we can have a physical version of the information radiator. And then
Orlando Sequera: we're going to be using
Orlando Sequera: cabin boards that are gonna help us to understand the progress of our project over time.
Orlando Sequera: And now we're going to watch a video that is gonna help us to understand a little bit more about
Orlando Sequera: information radiators.
90% of all the information transmitted to the brain is visual.
Not surprisingly. Visuals are processed 60,000 times faster than text.
We are wired to automatically interpret patterns for instant comprehension with almost 0 effort.
Want to see some examples.
What do you see? Right away?
A different shape.
and with this one
a different size.
a different color
that brings us to an information radiator.
An information radiator is a type of visual control that displays project information in a place where passers-by can see it and get information without having to ask questions.
The Far left column of this example starts with the project Charter.
This lists the project's primary objectives, key features.
and cautions, and risks.
It also lists. Those who have key roles in the project's completion
the product owner, the architecture owners.
and the team lead.
Finally, it provides a glossary of project terms which may not be widely known.
The next column of this example indicates any impediments and blockers that are slowing or preventing progress on the project.
This includes both known and outstanding blockers, and those that have been mitigated or completed.
The bottom of this column provides a convenient place for the color coding to reside
in this case. Green for done.
blue first started
red for blockers
and yellow for dependencies.
The large center section of this example shows the product backlog.
It also shows the iteration backlog.
the specific tasks being worked on by members of the team in the current iteration.
The far right section of this example shows the iteration burn down
the rate at which the team is burning through its customer stories.
This can tell the team whether they are on track ahead or behind the committed work.
It also shows the release. Burn up
this monitors progress of release, commitment, iteration by iteration, and gives the team a projection of when they will meet their release goal.
And finally.
it shows working agreements. These agreements detail how the team will work together
and what they can expect of each other.
Of course this is just an example.
Your information radiator should be customized to meet the needs of your team.
Orlando Sequera: and this is how, if we're following an agile approach or hybrid, we can
Orlando Sequera: avoid or minimize the need for project status meetings as much as possible, because all the information is going to be available
Orlando Sequera: at all times. We are not keeping anything from anybody is in.
Orlando Sequera: There are multiple ways of doing this. It can be done with low tech manually, or
Orlando Sequera: thank God that nowadays that we have
Orlando Sequera: software that can help us
Orlando Sequera: to create this information. Radiators, for example, Jira from Atlasian is one of them. You can create these ports and you can give access to anybody that needs to have access in a very easy way.
Orlando Sequera: There's another tool that i'm familiar with
Orlando Sequera: it. Team foundation server for Microsoft and Trello.
Orlando Sequera: you can create this as well. Okay, this is what's gonna anybody that would like that would like to know what's going on with the project. You can refer them
Orlando Sequera: to the information
Orlando Sequera: radiator
Orlando Sequera: we keep talking about the and we briefly mentioned the burn, the burn down charts.
Orlando Sequera: This Basically, tracks
Orlando Sequera: the work
Orlando Sequera: they work
Orlando Sequera: that is going to be completed in the iteration
Orlando Sequera: agile teams. They use a Brand-on chart to show the progress that is being made towards the work that they committed
Orlando Sequera: at the beginning of the iteration. So we have 2 access here. Basically we have in the vertical access. We have the number of user story points
Orlando Sequera: that we're estimated by the team. And then in the horizontal axis, we're measuring time, the time periods and over time. So we're gonna you can draw a diagonal line between the no total of
Orlando Sequera: number of user story points. That's going to be your velocity for the current iteration and 0 on the vertical axis.
Orlando Sequera: So that is the ideal line. And then, as we're progresses, the number of story points completed each time period are going to be noted, and they're going to be visible
Orlando Sequera: it to show the progress. Okay, these are your actuals. This is the deal
Orlando Sequera: line, and these these are the red. The red line is going to show your actual what the team was able to complete.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: and that this can change. You might have situations in which a team face higher.
Orlando Sequera: They were less productive because the number they complex, the level of complexity, was hired multiple factors that come into place. So but this is how we use a burn down chart
Orlando Sequera: to understand how quickly the team is going through.
Orlando Sequera: they
Orlando Sequera: producing.
Orlando Sequera: completing user stories per iteration, and
Orlando Sequera: he and over time we can. Using the Brandon chart over time, we can compare to multiple iterations, and that historical data is going to give us an idea of how many user story points. Can a team complete over time in average right? So it could be 30 points or 40 points.
Orlando Sequera: So when we make those commitments
Orlando Sequera: later in the project. We don't overcome it so we can use velocity. How quickly are they? They're burning through
Orlando Sequera: A user story points over time.
Orlando Sequera: so he's historically has, they have never been able with the same number of people. That is capacity. So we don't overcome it.
Orlando Sequera: We have the same 3 team members that we have had in the past. We shouldn't be committed to 60 user story points. If our velocity has been 30 or 40. For example, we shouldn't over commit. That's how we can set help the team to set them for success and not
Orlando Sequera: for failure. And the burden of chart
Orlando Sequera: is a little bit different. This is.
Orlando Sequera: we create a baseline for the burn down only after estimating the full value of the release backlog.
Orlando Sequera: And then what we're trying to measure here is, show the accumulated progress of complete work. It's kind of the opposite with the burn up that is going to show us eventually over time. If we keep
Orlando Sequera: burning through items at this rate.
Orlando Sequera: How far, how many iterations are we or strings are we going to need in order to complete all the project? Okay, so it's
Orlando Sequera: A: we usually start slow. So in iteration number one, not many user stories, if any at all. But in iteration number 2
Orlando Sequera: hit 20 user story points. So over time this went up, the team was has been and picking up over time, and the number of user story points is gonna take us based on this, at least 8 iterations to complete.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So that is to predict how many
Orlando Sequera: iterations are we going to need in order to a complete the work.
Orlando Sequera: This is calculated by the tools.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, you have, Jira. You have trailer. You have version, one. It's another one that I forgot to mention. They can calculate this for you, and they're gonna help you. But remember, they are only gonna be as good as the information that you input, in those
Orlando Sequera: in in those tools. So garbage in garbage out. Right? Same principle is applicable here, but they're gonna help you and your team as long as they enter whenever they complete their their their user stories and they're entering the information ideally on a daily basis. You're gonna be able to predict
Orlando Sequera: how many iterations do you need, and how many or what is the velocity of your team? How many, how quickly can they go over completing
Orlando Sequera: project work?
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to
Orlando Sequera: having a share, understanding and evaluating progress. This is this: is actually the the beauty of
Orlando Sequera: using an information radiator, because this can be.
Orlando Sequera: This is
Orlando Sequera: This is very interesting. By the way, this is specific, for as your projects or some hybrid projects, you use task force that show the status of the work. And so
Orlando Sequera: anybody can understand what are the items that we have in the to do list, and they associated
Orlando Sequera: user story points in this case. What are we working on right now?
Orlando Sequera: We might have another column besides Don, what are the items that are being tested? And by items I mean user stores. By the way.
Orlando Sequera: what are the items that we tested? What are the items that are being
Orlando Sequera: a block at this particular point? And from there the actual team leader, scrum master can help in getting whatever is needed to remove those blockers.
Orlando Sequera: and then the list of items that are done. So this is also another way that we can use for agile and hybrid projects to track progress. Okay?
Orlando Sequera: Oh, these are
Orlando Sequera: types of information radiators. By the way.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: estimating something that I mentioned the velocity.
Orlando Sequera: Basically.
Orlando Sequera: it is important to understand. And but it this takes time. I'm gonna put some caveats here. The velocity in simple terms is
Orlando Sequera: this is for Nigel team. By the way.
Orlando Sequera: how quickly are they completing
Orlando Sequera: user story points over time per iteration.
Orlando Sequera: So in this case we have
Orlando Sequera: in this chart
Orlando Sequera: A. For the first iteration. They went over a little bit over a 100 user story points.
Orlando Sequera: then the second iteration. They didn't hit a 100 points.
Orlando Sequera: Then the third iteration they went over. Well, over a 100 points, right? So you have.
Orlando Sequera: My recommendation is for teams that are new to working together. It takes
Orlando Sequera: at least
Orlando Sequera: 2 or 3 iterations to get a better feel for their velocity, because this velocity is going to help you
Orlando Sequera: 2,
Orlando Sequera: be. It's gonna help. Not just you. It's gonna help the team to make better to make more realistic commitments when in spring planning, they say, okay, Mr. Product owner. We're gonna commit to deliver
Orlando Sequera: 80 user story points.
Orlando Sequera: If we have the velocity. If we keep track of the velocity and we see that historically, For example, for this specific example, the team is going to commit to the liver 300 user story points.
Orlando Sequera: If we look at the velocity chart
Orlando Sequera: with the same people, by the way, with the same number of team members, which is what we call capacity. If we do that.
Orlando Sequera: we're going to be setting the team up
Orlando Sequera: forces for failure, because if we look at velocity with the same 3 members, we have never been able to hit a 300 users toward points. So therefore we shouldn't be coming into deliver 300 users story points. Our velocity, historically, is 90.
Orlando Sequera: 90 user story points, 90.5, almost but 90 points, 90 user story points per iteration. So we shouldn't commit to deliver more than 90 with the same capacity. Okay, this is also another way that helps teams to
Orlando Sequera: set themselves for success, and it's a way that we can another technique that we can use to track progress.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: we also have other ways to measure
Orlando Sequera: a progress as well. This is more for flow. If we're following more of a a lean approach, we can compare the work in progress that hasn't been completed.
Orlando Sequera: A. And this is where the lead time, the the duration of the time work. Item, goes through the entire process compared to the cycle time, and then the throughput. So this is specifically for lean approaches. That's what we mean by continuous flow.
Orlando Sequera: And that's basically one way that we have to track progress. If we are following a continuous flow or lean approach.
Orlando Sequera: Another aspect that we have to take into account when it comes to money. Turning performance is budget challenges. This happens all the time.
Orlando Sequera: If we have new requirements.
Orlando Sequera: That usually means that
Orlando Sequera: there's going to be an impact
Orlando Sequera: on your budget. You're gonna need more money to complete those requirements. Not necessarily everything in every single situation. But in most cases you're gonna need
Orlando Sequera: more money and more time.
Orlando Sequera: This also has an impact on your risks that might be some risk associated with that. And then this might bring changes to cost estimates. Okay. So that happens all the time
Orlando Sequera: for that.
Orlando Sequera: That's where we use
Orlando Sequera: this metrics that can help us to
Orlando Sequera: a measure, project, progress, and address any of those changes, and also
Orlando Sequera: make any corrections that we have to make to our performance. Okay, and value management.
Orlando Sequera: I'm. Remind you, Mansion.
Orlando Sequera: these are metrics that we use to understand that are going to allow us to compare our
Orlando Sequera: for our performance, our actuals against what we plan for.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, they're going to help us to evaluate the health of our schedule, and also of our budget.
Orlando Sequera: and they're going to help us to
Orlando Sequera: if we're going down the route, the the wrong path. We have a major delays with our budget measures, or major major delays with our scheduled with our budget, a major cost overruns.
Orlando Sequera: By using and ready management we're going to prevent that from happening, because we're going to have ways to predict
Orlando Sequera: the future it behavior. If we continue to go down this path we're going to end up with major cost. Overrun some major delays. By using our 5 min from going to, we can prevent that accident from happening.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to value management.
Orlando Sequera: we have to take into account mainly
Orlando Sequera: a 3 important variables.
Orlando Sequera: First, one is
Orlando Sequera: the plan value
Orlando Sequera: what we call the plan value. This is
Orlando Sequera: what we plan.
Orlando Sequera: The work that we plan and we have is the authorized budget assigned to projects to schedule work. This is what we plan for when we build those activities in our
Orlando Sequera: project schedule, for example, this the and those were authorized because we went through. We have a scheduled baseline. This is the
Orlando Sequera: actual authorized scheduled work that we have. This is what we plan for. Okay, then, we have the earned value
Orlando Sequera: and value is
Orlando Sequera: how much work
Orlando Sequera: the amount of work that you have been able to complete at any point in time in your project. Express
Orlando Sequera: in money terms. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So for example, and i'm gonna use a quick example, and then
Orlando Sequera: i'm gonna talk about the actual cost. That's very simple. To understand is, how much money have you spent at a particular point in time. So plan value. Let's assume that your
Orlando Sequera: your project consists of building 10 houses, not just 1 10 houses. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: and you have.
Orlando Sequera: That is your project got to be 10 houses in
Orlando Sequera: a in
Orlando Sequera: one year.
Orlando Sequera: That is your project schedule. One year
Orlando Sequera: you have to build 10 houses
Orlando Sequera: by
Orlando Sequera: month. Number 6. How many houses should you have completed to be on time?
Orlando Sequera: And I'm going to open up the
Orlando Sequera: chat!
Orlando Sequera: The
Orlando Sequera: for that!
Orlando Sequera: How many houses have you
Orlando Sequera: should you have completed 5 houses, right?
Orlando Sequera: 5 houses?
Orlando Sequera: That is the plan. Yeah, correct. So I see that most of you are on the right side. So that is your plan. Value
Orlando Sequera: should be
Orlando Sequera: by 50%.
Orlando Sequera: But the ear value, maybe that is your actual. That is what actually happened. Perhaps
Orlando Sequera: perhaps your
Orlando Sequera: you have been able to complete
Orlando Sequera: 3 houses
Orlando Sequera: or 2 or 6 could be
Orlando Sequera: could be more than what you plan for.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, 6 for that's your actual. So they?
Orlando Sequera: How much work were you able to complete
Orlando Sequera: they 3 houses, for example? And oh, I forgot to tell you, let's assume that our budget is a 1 million dollars, or
Orlando Sequera: for the sake of a of the example. Right? So your schedule one year, your budget for the project a 1 million dollars and your project is to build 10 houses, so
Orlando Sequera: your own value in that situation. Let's assume that you were able to complete only
Orlando Sequera: 3 houses, so
Orlando Sequera: our budget is a 1 million dollars. What will be the
Orlando Sequera: actual earned value? How can I express? Let's say that we completed only
Orlando Sequera: we only completed 3 houses in 5 months.
Orlando Sequera: What is that express in dollars?
Orlando Sequera: It's assumed that we're using us dollars for for this exercise.
Orlando Sequera: $300,000. Correct.
Orlando Sequera: Correct. That is your own value.
Orlando Sequera: And what is your plan? Value express in us dollars now that we know that the budget is
Orlando Sequera: a what is the what is the plan? Value in dollars plan value $500,000.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: I see that most of you are getting it. But i'm going to clarify.
Orlando Sequera: How are we calculating that because
Orlando Sequera: our budget is to a budget is a 1 million dollars.
Orlando Sequera: Our
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: plan value is at 6 months
Orlando Sequera: we should have completed
Orlando Sequera: 5 houses right half of it 50. But if you divide a 1 million dollars
Orlando Sequera: between, and this is very linear, by the way, just for the sake of purposes, the the the the example. If you divide the 1 million dollars between 1010 houses that you have to complete is a $100 a $100,000 each house, so we only completed 3.
Orlando Sequera: Then
Orlando Sequera: your
Orlando Sequera: houses are you? You have Your own value is $300,000, but your plan value is
Orlando Sequera: $500,000, because you should have completed
Orlando Sequera: 5 homes.
Orlando Sequera: That is the easy way to understand plan value. That's what we plan for expressing dollars and value. That's the work that we have been able to complete express in money terms not just dollars in money terms, right? It could be any currency. And then actual cost is, how much money have you spent at a particular
Orlando Sequera: pointing time in your project? That's the simple and easy way to understand, plan, value, earn value, and actual cost. How much money you have to spend. That is actual cost. When it comes to earning value.
Orlando Sequera: We have to understand the goal with our values. To understand is our project
Orlando Sequera: progressing on schedule? Are we
Orlando Sequera: ahead of schedule behind schedule, or are we under? Are we right
Orlando Sequera: on schedule, or are we behind scheduled? So 3 scenarios is either ahead of schedule
Orlando Sequera: ideally.
Orlando Sequera: at least on schedule
Orlando Sequera: or behind schedule. So let's use the same values that the same values that we use. For our example, let's assume for a minute, and the first way that we measure our project performance when it comes to schedule is with a variance what we call scheduled variance. Okay, so
Orlando Sequera: let's assume that
Orlando Sequera: same concept, right? Same example. We have a 1 million dollars for a budget. We have one year to complete 10 houses
Orlando Sequera: month Number 6. At the end of month, month, number 6. We said that our
Orlando Sequera: we we we should have been able to complete at least
Orlando Sequera: 5 houses, but we were able to determine that
Orlando Sequera: we were not able to do that. We completed only
Orlando Sequera: rehouses. So
Orlando Sequera: what will be the scheduled variance in that
Orlando Sequera: in that situation.
Orlando Sequera: and i'm going to open up
Orlando Sequera: the chat
Orlando Sequera: so it will be. What is our? It will be negative, so that the earned value is
Orlando Sequera: 300,000 minus 500,000 is negative.
Orlando Sequera: 200,000. So we have a negative scheduled variance.
Orlando Sequera: That means is that good or bad? I'm gonna ask you. That question is that good or bad?
Orlando Sequera: That's bad, and that means what? When we have a negative variance, what does it mean?
Orlando Sequera: The project is behind schedule.
Orlando Sequera: But what if we completed
Orlando Sequera: our earned value? We were able to complete
Orlando Sequera: 6 houses.
Orlando Sequera: What is our own value? If we complete the 6 houses
Orlando Sequera: that will be
Orlando Sequera: 600,000 right?
Orlando Sequera: And then what will be your scheduled variance?
Orlando Sequera: A 100,000 positive
Orlando Sequera: positive means that, are we
Orlando Sequera: a hip or behind schedule? We have a positive variance. We are ahead of schedule. That's good.
Orlando Sequera: And what if our earned value? At the end of 5 month of 6 months we completed 5 houses.
Orlando Sequera: so our earned value.
Orlando Sequera: if
Orlando Sequera: 500,000 we don't have any variance. What does it mean? We are right on time. Okay, I want you to understand this the easiest way possible. That's what it is.
Orlando Sequera: Exactly. That's so. You guys are correct.
Orlando Sequera: but
Orlando Sequera: one thing is that we have to come up with a way, or
Orlando Sequera: experts. Not not not us. Experts have to come up with a way that was apples to apples to every single project, because in many cases projects had
Orlando Sequera: projects are going to have different durations. They're going to have different budgets, so we needed to have to have an approach that was
Orlando Sequera: going to be the same for every single project, regardless of the amount, because $500,000
Orlando Sequera: variance
Orlando Sequera: in. If the budget is 200 milliondollars. Maybe it's not going to be the same impact as is if the budget is going to be a a 1 million dollars, right? So
Orlando Sequera: in order to do that we had to come up with a standardized approach that can help us to understand apples to apples.
Orlando Sequera: and a metric that was applied to every single project, regardless of the amount, so we could understand specifically how the projects were performing. And that's where the scheduled performance index came up to play. We have. We can divide
Orlando Sequera: the earned value
Orlando Sequera: by the plan value.
Orlando Sequera: and we're gonna get we're gonna get a specific amount. So if we are.
Orlando Sequera: if we divide, let's assume that our own value we were only able to complete
Orlando Sequera: 3 houses.
Orlando Sequera: and that is going to be $300,000 for the same example that we're using, and our prime value is $500,000. So what is the FBI?
Orlando Sequera: You divide
Orlando Sequera: a number at 300,000, divided by 500,000,
Orlando Sequera: and i'm going to open up the chat.
Orlando Sequera: And I'm going to tell you without doing any calculation. It's going to be 0 Point something
Orlando Sequera: because your numerator is lower than your denominator
Orlando Sequera: is 0 point 6.
Orlando Sequera: That means that's bad for your project. That's bad for your project. That means that your project is behind scheduled. If it's less.
Orlando Sequera: then one is back.
Orlando Sequera: If behind scheduled. Your project is behind schedule. Okay, less than one is bad. The price we hand schedule. But what if you complete it?
Orlando Sequera: 6 houses Your earned value was is 600,000 divided by 500,000. What it's gonna be more than one. I'm gonna tell you right away. 1.2, some. Would you calculate that's good. That means that your project is ahead of scheduled. So this is how we do it with
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: with actual a with project status reports. This is how we do it. We use the metric.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, we use the metric.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: the same goes for the cost. This is for the schedule.
Orlando Sequera: Put the same goals for the cost, but it's a little bit different. We take into account instead of plan value.
Orlando Sequera: In order to calculate the cost variance we take into account. How much money have we may have we been able to spend, which is the actual cost easy to understand.
Orlando Sequera: but is the same principle. If it's cost variance. You take into account your own value how much
Orlando Sequera: work express in
Orlando Sequera: the particular currency I tend to save dollars. But it's not only dollars a minus your actual cost, the amount of money that you have
Orlando Sequera: 2,
Orlando Sequera: that you have that you have spent so far so, and the same principle. If your earned value
Orlando Sequera: cool equals your actual cost, the money that you have spent no variance. That means that your project is on budget. But if your
Orlando Sequera: and value is lower than your actual cost, how much money you have to spend, let's assume that in this go back to the same principle. The same example that we use our own value is $300,000. We have spent $700,000. So far, what is our cost? Variance?
Orlando Sequera: $300,000. It's our own value, and we have spent
Orlando Sequera: $700,000, minus $400,000. It's gonna be our cost. Fairness, negative negative, 400,000. That is, that good or bad?
Orlando Sequera: That's bad right? That means that we are.
Orlando Sequera: No, we're not behind. We are over budget. We are over budget. We are over. Budget.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: pay attention to that.
Orlando Sequera: And what about If our and value is $500,000, and we have spent so far only $200,000.
Orlando Sequera: Is that good or bad?
Orlando Sequera: That's good, right?
Orlando Sequera: And yes hour. It will be $300,000 Positive
Orlando Sequera: we are under budget. That's good. Okay. So again.
Orlando Sequera: But we had to use the same approach that we had to follow that with the follow before for every single project that it was applicable to every single project. I'm gonna post the chat again.
Orlando Sequera: We have to use that approach that will work for every single project. So Cpi is going to be your own value, divided by your actual cost.
Orlando Sequera: And if you're
Orlando Sequera: i'm gonna open up the chat again If your earned value is $300,000, and your actual cost is 500,000. What is your Cpi
Orlando Sequera: without doing the calculation and it I know that it's going to be 0 point. Something
Orlando Sequera: okay.
Orlando Sequera: Is that good or bad?
Orlando Sequera: What's that
Orlando Sequera: for your project? Your
Orlando Sequera: over budget
Orlando Sequera: you're spending more than what you're supposed to. So again the same principle. But what if your earned value is 600,000, and your actual cost is
Orlando Sequera: 500,000.
Orlando Sequera: I'm going to venture to say that it's going to be 1 point something
Orlando Sequera: 1.2 is that good or bad?
Orlando Sequera: That's good. That means that you are
Orlando Sequera: under budget.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. But what if your in value and your actual costs are the same?
Orlando Sequera: What's going to be your Cpi?
Orlando Sequera: No, it's gonna be one same number divided by the same number. It's gonna be one. That means that you are right on budget. Okay, that is the easiest way to understand
Orlando Sequera: and value management.
Orlando Sequera: but we also have.
Orlando Sequera: I'm gonna post the chat.
Orlando Sequera: We also have to make some determination. Those are indicators to understand the health our
Orlando Sequera: performance when it comes to budget, and we also have to understand a
Orlando Sequera: our help when it comes to our budget and our schedule. But with their value management. We get a little bit more.
Orlando Sequera: We can predict what's what's gonna happen in the future.
Orlando Sequera: We can predict if we continue down this path.
Orlando Sequera: what's gonna happen in the future. So we can do a prediction. That's where the estimated completion formula comes into play.
Orlando Sequera: and they are based on
Orlando Sequera: the Cpi. Do need to calculate the Cpi first, the current spending efficiency, how efficient we're being with our with the way we're spending our money
Orlando Sequera: and our budget at completion. By the way, Bud did, a completion equals your overall project budget. Don't: let that confuse your B I. C. Equals your project. Budget. Okay, so estimate a completion is a prediction. If we continue down this path
Orlando Sequera: we are going to end up somewhere. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: we are gonna end up somewhere, and we depending on the Cpi based on the Cpi. So the formula will be.
Orlando Sequera: You're gonna divide your overall project budget completion, divided by your Cpi, whatever it is, so your budget at completion. Let's assume that it's a 1 million dollars divided by
Orlando Sequera: a let's assume that you are.
Orlando Sequera: I'm gonna open up the chat divided by 0 point 6
Orlando Sequera: without doing any calculation. I'm gonna tell you that it's gonna be more eac. It's gonna be more than a 1 million dollars.
Orlando Sequera: I'm told you that right away.
Orlando Sequera: So you divide a 1 million dollars divided by one by 0 Point 6.
Orlando Sequera: It's going to be more than a 1 million dollar. It's going to be over a 1 million dollars.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so you that means that if you continue down that path you're gonna your project is gonna end up, costing you more. That exactly 1.7 million dollars exactly. If you continue down this path
Orlando Sequera: we have, we're gonna end up spending not a 1 million dollars. When i'm understanding a 1 million point 7. And let me tell you that's a that's a lot of explanation that you have to give to your stakeholders. If that's a situation, so we better fix
Orlando Sequera: the way we're spending money in our project. We were to fix our Cpi
Orlando Sequera: A, and then we also can predict
Orlando Sequera: the cost required to complete the remainder of the project. That's where we use the estimate to complete. But i'm gonna make you calculate another. Another example for the eac before we go to, etc. If
Orlando Sequera: If our Cpi is 1.2 divide, 1 million divided by 1.2, what is the result? Without the calculation? I can tell you that it's less than a 1 million dollars.
Orlando Sequera: It's 900 and something
Orlando Sequera: $833,000.
Orlando Sequera: If that is the case
Orlando Sequera: you, if you continue down this path you're going to end up
Orlando Sequera: on their budget. You're going to spend 188, 830,000dollars.
Orlando Sequera: That's gonna be music to the ears of your stakeholders. Okay, so you can predict the future estimate. A completion is a forecast
Orlando Sequera: of the future based on the current spending efficiency.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: and the estimate to complete is going to help you to understand, based on your
Orlando Sequera: now that you calculated your eac where you're going to end up, based on your current spending efficiency with your Cpi, You're gonna be able to determine how much one do you have? Do you need to complete the remainder of the project. It's going to be your eac, your forecasted budget minus your actual cost.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: I have to explain this the simplest way possible. I'm. Going to post the chat.
Orlando Sequera: and for
Orlando Sequera: and value management we also use it in agile projects as well. We also it's an agile project. It. We can help to understand, based on the items that we plan that we said that we committed to complete compare to what we completed, or or the rate of completion with our.
Orlando Sequera: with our actual
Orlando Sequera: a velocity.
Orlando Sequera: it
Orlando Sequera: following and value management. We can understand how many rations our plan, how many
Orlando Sequera: user story points we have to we? And then based on the release budget that we have available. So we can use the same principle whether we're going with an agile approach, or whether we're going with a predictive approach and value is applicable to any of your
Orlando Sequera: a, any of your actual.
Orlando Sequera: any of the
Orlando Sequera: life cycles that you can. The approaches that you can use
Orlando Sequera: agile and value methods. A couple of things agile and value methods are
Orlando Sequera: a little bit more complex.
Orlando Sequera: and they're going beyond the scope of the exam. The exam is not really about
Orlando Sequera: trying to determine whether you're an agile expert. You need to know enough agile to be dangerous, and we're covering that above and beyond. But
Orlando Sequera: the you can apply. The goal here is that you can also apply and value management to add your projects for you to know that. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to managing and leaving resources, we have to include
Orlando Sequera: all the resources that we have
Orlando Sequera: theme and external contractors. We have to pay attention to risks. We have to check our contracts.
Orlando Sequera: and we have to a. As our contracts are completed. This is also about
Orlando Sequera: performance right? We have to check any deliberals that have been completed. We have to make sure that the payments are being made accordingly, as
Orlando Sequera: per the contract whenever any deliver will have been completed and based on the terms of the contract we have to make the payments when we come back from break. I'm going to review the questions, and we'll address any
Orlando Sequera: questions related to to earn value management, and I know that some of you Might we wondering, do I need to memorize all the formulas. I'm going to be getting formula questions in the exam. We're going to talk about that when we come back from break.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: So, but this is important about the performance. We also have to take pay attention to other areas. It's not just Cove schedule and budget in our project we have to monitor procurement. We have to monitor those contracts. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: and our resources.
Orlando Sequera: We also have to
Orlando Sequera: and controller resources. What we are using is not just the people it's about equipment material supplies. Make sure that
Orlando Sequera: whenever you need resources available, they are available. That's why you do this coordination with
Orlando Sequera: functional managers, or whomever those team members report to to make sure that they are available when you need them. That's part of your planning. And here you're monitoring to make sure that your resources are indeed available when you need them. Otherwise your schedule is gonna be affected.
Orlando Sequera: Your
Orlando Sequera: a.
Orlando Sequera: Your budget might be effective at at Sarah. So you're monitoring here that
Orlando Sequera: what you plan for is actually happening in the
Orlando Sequera: you also have to
Orlando Sequera: focus on
Orlando Sequera: updating it. Your resource allocation. You get a keeping track of what has been used today
Orlando Sequera: what is still needed and review
Orlando Sequera: constantly they month. Do you have to monitor your your expenditures that is important to track your to monitor and control your budget.
Orlando Sequera: If if you're dealing with resource shortages, how can what are the strategies that you have in place, and you can even identify this as a risk and your risk register and address it. Okay, if you know that resource availability is
Orlando Sequera: a particular risk in your organization.
Orlando Sequera: but you gotta make sure that your resources are used accordingly, and they are released whenever they completed their project activities.
Orlando Sequera: Inform stakeholders of issues with with relevant resources that goes that coordination with other functional managers, many changes whenever they occur.
Orlando Sequera: Another important aspect
Orlando Sequera: that
Orlando Sequera: you have to keep into account. If
Orlando Sequera: you have to monitor those contracts.
Orlando Sequera: A any you might also have dispute.
Orlando Sequera: There is when it comes to when it comes to handling disputes. I want to mention something about in closing, but
Orlando Sequera: have to be. You have to monitor performance, and all disputes have to be addressed a as possible. Okay, so we are
Orlando Sequera: going to.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna be addressing that when we have to pretty close to. But every single procurement has to be close in your project
Orlando Sequera: also.
Orlando Sequera: Well, that's what we have for the first breaks.
Orlando Sequera: So they are. There are a few questions we are. We have a few minutes before the break. I'm going to address
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: I'm going to address some of the questions.
Orlando Sequera: Let's go back to a slide. 61, I see.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So I think there are multiple questions here on
Orlando Sequera: a the chart. So one thing that I wanted to point out
Orlando Sequera: is
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to cost
Orlando Sequera: cost variance.
Orlando Sequera: Your.
Orlando Sequera: if it's more than one is good.
Orlando Sequera: So this is positive. This is not over budget there, this is there's a mistake in this light. We're gonna we're gonna work in in in addressing that, but more than one is positive. Some of you cut up on that.
Orlando Sequera: A more than one is good for your project, as we were able to determine anything. Any Cpi that is more than one means that you are under budget.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, it's the opposite Here this is inverse, and then.
Orlando Sequera: if it's less than one, if the product is going to be over. But it is bad if it's 0 point, 6 or 0 point 8. That's but for your project you're overstanding. So this is inverted here. We'll make that correction, my apologies, but those of you that cut up on that are correct.
Orlando Sequera: Any cpi or spi. That is more than one means. If it's Cpi, it means that you are
Orlando Sequera: under budget. Okay, it's good for your project. You're spending less money than you're supposed to be spending. Let's assume that, for example, your a Cpi is 1.0 7 for your project. That means that for every dollar or every euro that you're spending on your project. You are getting
Orlando Sequera: a dollar and 7 cents, or a Eur and 7 cents
Orlando Sequera: in return. That means that that's music to the ears of any stakeholders. So it is. This is inverted. So
Orlando Sequera: your is your project is below budget. It's on their budget is great if it's more than one is positive if it's less than one.
Orlando Sequera: Let's assume that a 0 point 8, 6, that is, that for your project that means that for every dollar that you're spending, you are getting 86 cents in return that's bad for your project.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so my apologies. That was there was an oversight on that slide for those of you that cut up on that a. I wanted to make the clarification. But going back to the example, you guys got it correct, so more than one is good, less than one is bad for both
Orlando Sequera: Spi and Cpi. We're going to take a break. Now
Orlando Sequera: we're ready for our break, and when we come back i'll start by addressing
Orlando Sequera: some of the questions that I see in the Q. And a. But I wanted to
Orlando Sequera: a wrap up the first session by correcting that mistake. Okay, Cpi: More than one Spi: More than one is good.
Orlando Sequera: Cpi a an Spi less than one is bad for your project.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: so we're gonna take a
Orlando Sequera: 1 h break. We're going to be back in an hour. Please make sure that you stay logged in
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: during the hour break and we're going to.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to be playing some important videos.
Orlando Sequera: And when we come back we're gonna continue with the class, so enjoy your break. We'll be back in an hour from now.
Orlando Sequera: Thank you very much. Everyone.
Orlando Sequera: Hmm.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to continue with our class.
Orlando Sequera: But before we jump into the next stop
Orlando Sequera: I would like to go over.
Orlando Sequera: Let's find one more time just to clarify where we are
Orlando Sequera: with earn value management, and the way
Orlando Sequera: the way I'm going to do it is one more time with
Orlando Sequera: make simple.
Orlando Sequera: So i'm going to give you some information. We're going to use the same example
Orlando Sequera: that we use before.
Orlando Sequera: So I'm. Going to give you the background information for our project.
Orlando Sequera: Our
Orlando Sequera: project is consists of building 10 houses 10 single one-story houses
Orlando Sequera: we have determined. Our schedule is one year to complete
Orlando Sequera: the 10 houses
Orlando Sequera: and we also have a budget. That is, a 1 million dollars for our project. We determine this in our
Orlando Sequera: planning efforts. Okay, how do we do that with all the processes
Orlando Sequera: and the tools and techniques that we cover in the class
earlier.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, we were able to determine that to complete this same houses we need a 1 million dollars and it's gonna take us
Orlando Sequera: a year. Okay. So
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to let me go back, one more slide
Orlando Sequera: to.
Orlando Sequera: So this one.
Orlando Sequera: my apologies
Orlando Sequera: next one.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, here we are.
Orlando Sequera: Plan value.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, we have 3 important components here. We have our plan value. We have our own value, and we have our actual cost.
Orlando Sequera: So the plan value
Orlando Sequera: to understand it
Orlando Sequera: it in a very simple way
Orlando Sequera: at is what we based on our planning. Where should we be
Orlando Sequera: at any given point in time in our project.
Orlando Sequera: expressing that in monetary value, in dollars or euros, or whatever currency we're using for a project right so where should we be At At the end
Orlando Sequera: of month Number 6.
Orlando Sequera: In regards to our project.
Orlando Sequera: I'm gonna open up the chat.
Orlando Sequera: How many houses should we should we build By the end of a month. Number 6, 5 houses, right? 50%
Orlando Sequera: expressing us dollars or euros.
Orlando Sequera: That will be
Orlando Sequera: $500,000. And why is that? Well, we have
Orlando Sequera: a 1 million dollars, divided by 10 is a $100,000 per home right very straight for very linear.
Orlando Sequera: I saw a question in the Q. And a. Before we left. Oh, but wait a second. What about contingencies?
Orlando Sequera: Remember? We already took that into account when we built this schedule? I'm gonna post the chat for a second. We already build that into this they they bought it. I'm sorry.
Orlando Sequera: actually in the schedule, too. We already took care of that. We it took care of that.
Orlando Sequera: This is
Orlando Sequera: real life. This is happening right now. What's happening in the project? Okay. So we plan that ideally by the end of month Number 6, we should be completed with 50 of the project. Why is that? Because it's a year.
Orlando Sequera: and we have 10 houses to build ideally. Is that going to be the case in reality? No, not necessarily. Maybe maybe not.
Orlando Sequera: So. That's where the ear value comes into play.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: is the amount of work that has been completed, expressed in monetary terms. So let's assume that after at the end of month, number 6, we completed
Orlando Sequera: 4 houses.
Orlando Sequera: What is the earned value. I'm. Going to open up the chat again. What is the earned value? If we completed poor houses.
Orlando Sequera: the chat is $400,000 correct.
Orlando Sequera: and then the third element is the actual cost
Orlando Sequera: is basically, how much money have we spent at a particular
Orlando Sequera: pointing time in our project? That's all it is, how much only have we spent that is the actual cost?
Orlando Sequera: A. At a particular at any particular point in time in our project. That's what actual cost is so. Now
Orlando Sequera: one more time
Orlando Sequera: we have to track measure. We use and value management to track measure. Let's start
Orlando Sequera: to track, to measure performance, to track for your performance. Let's start with the scheduled right?
Orlando Sequera: Is the project for residents schedule.
Orlando Sequera: For this we can answer this question calculating a variance.
Orlando Sequera: So we use a scheduled variance. What is called a scheduled variance
Orlando Sequera: is the formula is your own value
Orlando Sequera: minus your plan value.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, that is, the formula is to earn value in our example is $400,000 minus.
Orlando Sequera: They plan value.
Orlando Sequera: What is the plan? Value 500,000 right?
Orlando Sequera: What is the scheduled variance?
Orlando Sequera: Feel free to use a chat
Orlando Sequera: minus a $100,000 is negative. It's not positive. It's negative because it is
Orlando Sequera: $400,000, minus 500,000. The the scheduled variance is negative.
Orlando Sequera: It's minus 100,000.
Orlando Sequera: Is our project
Orlando Sequera: based on that
Orlando Sequera: piece? Our project
Orlando Sequera: is that good or bad for the project. Let me ask you first that, good or bad for the pro. We have a negative variance. That's bad, a negative variance. It's always bad. Remember that.
Orlando Sequera: And also
Orlando Sequera: does that mean that our project is behind schedule or ahead of schedule?
Orlando Sequera: It means that it's behind schedule. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: What if
Orlando Sequera: what what won't happen? If for
Orlando Sequera: Aaron Valley was $500,000, what is the variance?
Orlando Sequera: 0? No variance? That means that we are
Orlando Sequera: right on time. So at the end of month. Number 6. We completed 5 houses.
Orlando Sequera: What we plan for is what actually happened. Okay, we are right on time.
Orlando Sequera: But what if
Orlando Sequera: we completed 7 houses in 6 months. What is their in value?
Orlando Sequera: What is the earn value? If we completed 7 houses.
Orlando Sequera: $700,000,
Orlando Sequera: what will be the scheduled variance.
Orlando Sequera: It will be
Orlando Sequera: plus or positive 200,000 correct. That's a positive variance. What does it mean? He said. It's a positive variance, good or bad, for the project.
Orlando Sequera: It's good. It means that we are ahead of schedule. Okay, perfect.
Orlando Sequera: Now.
Orlando Sequera: i'm gonna post the chat for a second.
Orlando Sequera: since every project is different, and we need a standardized approach.
Orlando Sequera: For as or I'm. Also for stakeholders. Because remember when opera manager and they're looking at projects. It's not just your project your progress one of many projects that the organization is currently undertaking. So they needed a standardized approach
Orlando Sequera: that will mean the same to the project, regardless of
Orlando Sequera: they budget, and regardless of the duration, because a 1 million dollars might not be it, it's going to be different if your if your project is 20 billiondollars, right?
Orlando Sequera: So a. Compared to where your B whether your budget is 2 million dollars. So they needed a standardized approach. And that's where the scheduled performance
Orlando Sequera: index. The FBI came into play because is applicable to any project, and it's going to mean it's going to be apples to apples in every single situation. It's a it's an index that measures efficiency in this case of the schedule. So the way we calculate the Spi very simple. Instead of
Orlando Sequera: calculating the variance. What we're going to do is instead of subtracting the plan value from the earned value we're going to divide it. So we we have our own value. We're going to divide it by our plan value. That's how we're going to calculate this.
Orlando Sequera: Get your performance index. So
Orlando Sequera: if our own value is
Orlando Sequera: $300,000, and our plan value is $500,000. I'm gonna open up the chat again.
Orlando Sequera: What
Orlando Sequera: is that? Good or bad for the product? And without doing any calculation. When I say that is 0 point, something.
Orlando Sequera: What's the spi?
Orlando Sequera: 300,000 divided by
Orlando Sequera: 500,000 point 6.
Orlando Sequera: That's back for your project. That means that you are behind schedule.
Orlando Sequera: That's back for your project. Okay?
Orlando Sequera: A: what? If your
Orlando Sequera: and value is 700,000,
Orlando Sequera: and your plan. Value is 500,000. We come that that's what we plan for. With the with the conditions of our project we were able to finish 7 houses.
Orlando Sequera: That's 1.4. That's more. That's good, right? So we are ahead of schedule.
Orlando Sequera: 1.4. So that's
Orlando Sequera: that means that we are ahead of schedule. So always more than one is good
Orlando Sequera: means that you are ahead of schedule. When it comes to the Spi, less than one is bad.
Orlando Sequera: It means that you're behind schedule. And what if our
Orlando Sequera: erm value is 500,000, or plan values? 500,000? What's gonna be our Sbi?
Orlando Sequera: It's going to be one right same number divided by the same number.
Orlando Sequera: It'll be one. That means that we are right on schedule. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Now.
Orlando Sequera: i'm going to post the chat
Orlando Sequera: for a second. And now we're going to move on to
Orlando Sequera: cost
Orlando Sequera: cost.
Orlando Sequera: And here's where we encountered the editorial mistake. My apologies for that. But we do the same with cost. We're going to calculate the variance.
Orlando Sequera: But in this case we're going to replace
Orlando Sequera: instead of plan value, we're going to use actual cost, and that's basically the aggregation of all the costs incur until that particular time in the project.
Orlando Sequera: How much money have we spent in the project? There's no mystery, no mystery, just a how much money you have to spend the social information given to you that's there's there's no mystery when it comes to actual cost. Okay, to calculate the difference is your earned value. Let's assume that your earned value is
Orlando Sequera: $400,000, and your actual cost is
Orlando Sequera: $700,000. What is your cost? Variance? I'm. Going to open up the chat again.
Orlando Sequera: and value
Orlando Sequera: is
Orlando Sequera: 400,000.
Orlando Sequera: Your
Orlando Sequera: actual cost is 700,000. It's gonna be minus 300,000. Right? Is that good or bad? That's bad. That means that we are.
Orlando Sequera: We are over Budget. We are over spending. Okay, that's bad.
Orlando Sequera: We are over Budget. We are spending. That's back. Okay, this
Orlando Sequera: we're. This is inverted. We have to address it. But I wanna make sure a negative variance is bad. It means that we are over spending. That's what it means. Okay, please make sure that you have that you have that clear, Understand? Understanding of that, this is inverted. They should be
Orlando Sequera: flip, and we're gonna fix it. My apologies for that. But
Orlando Sequera: negative variance
Orlando Sequera: is bad. It means that we are overspending.
Orlando Sequera: What if our own value is
Orlando Sequera: $700,000, and our actual cost is
Orlando Sequera: $300,000? What is the cost variance.
Orlando Sequera: It'll be 400,000 positive right? So that's a positive variance. Is that good or bad for your project.
Orlando Sequera: and that means that you are on their budget.
Orlando Sequera: Exactly.
Orlando Sequera: So that's good.
Orlando Sequera: And then we also have
Orlando Sequera: another metric that can help us to understand
Orlando Sequera: the health of our
Orlando Sequera: budget in this.
Orlando Sequera: In this case I'm. Going to post a chat.
Orlando Sequera: It is the Cpi because we needed to have an approach that worked for every single project.
Orlando Sequera: Okay to that.
Orlando Sequera: What's that post to apples to every single project. So we calculate the Cpi again divide in the earned value by the actual cost.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: if our
Orlando Sequera: and value, when I open up the chat again.
Orlando Sequera: if our own value is
Orlando Sequera: $400,000,
Orlando Sequera: and our actual cost is
Orlando Sequera: $600,000, what is our Cpi.
Orlando Sequera: and i'm going to say that a Sierra point something without doing any calculation. I see that some of you are a 0 point 6, 7. It's less than one.
Orlando Sequera: Is that good or bad for your project?
Orlando Sequera: That's bad. That means that for every dollar that you're spending on your doll on your project we're get. You're getting 66 cents in return. That's bad. That means that you are over Budget. So this has to be flipped. What we see in the slide has to be flipped.
Orlando Sequera: Your project is over. Project. That's bad. But what if
Orlando Sequera: your
Orlando Sequera: what would be the Cpi if your
Orlando Sequera: and value is
Orlando Sequera: $600,000, and your actual cost is $400,000.
Orlando Sequera: I'm going to without doing any calculations. It's going to be 1 point something
Orlando Sequera: i'll tell you right away.
Orlando Sequera: I see some of you are saying that it's 1.5. Just gonna perform a calculation.
Orlando Sequera: So is that good or bad?
Orlando Sequera: That's good for your project.
Orlando Sequera: That means that you, for
Orlando Sequera: if it's more than one, it's good for you is that you are under budget. It's under budget. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So that's good for your and what if our end value is 500,000, and we have spent so far $500,000 in the project.
Orlando Sequera: Cpi is one means that we are right on Budget.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, Just wanted to make sure that we had that we were clear on that. I'm gonna post a chat
Orlando Sequera: again.
Orlando Sequera: and then that is to understand what's happening right now. What's happening with our project. But we also can forecast
Orlando Sequera: we can predict the future if we continue down that path.
Orlando Sequera: and this is where the estimate of completion help us, is going to help us to understand.
Orlando Sequera: If we continue down this path. This is what's going to happen. This is where we're going to end up.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: for estimate of completion or the forecasted budget where we're gonna end up at. If we continue down this path
Orlando Sequera: we have.
Orlando Sequera: we meet the budget at completion. That is the overall project budget. We already have that information. Let's take it from our example is a 1 million dollars. We already have that information. Okay? And then the Cpi.
Orlando Sequera: We're going.
Orlando Sequera: We we have to calculate it, and we're gonna we? We have it already. Let's assume that our Cpi is 0 point 8, 5
Orlando Sequera: in our budget. That completion is 1 million dollars. What is
Orlando Sequera: the the estimate
Orlando Sequera: at completion.
Orlando Sequera: and I'm going to tell you without doing any calculation. It's going to be more than a 1 million dollars
Orlando Sequera: 1 million dollars. Cpi 0 point 8, 5.
Orlando Sequera: I see that some of your experience one
Orlando Sequera: 1 million 17,000dollars, so your $117,000
Orlando Sequera: over.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: if you don't address
Orlando Sequera: your current spending
Orlando Sequera: in your project. You're gonna end up
Orlando Sequera: way over a 1 million dollars. But what if your Cpi is 1 0, 1.0 7
Orlando Sequera: same bac a 1 million dollars, and your Cpi is 1.0 7.
Orlando Sequera: What's going to be your eac
Orlando Sequera: and i'm going to tell you right away. It's going to be less than a 1 million dollars.
Orlando Sequera: My $134,000. Okay, some of you are calculating so that's music to the years of any stakeholder that's why this metrics are so important.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, metrics are so important because we need to keep track of the health of our project. And then
Orlando Sequera: we can also predict
Orlando Sequera: how much money
Orlando Sequera: it's needed to complete the remainder of the project. That is where we use the estimate to complete.
Orlando Sequera: and the formula is your once you calculate your estimate of completion or your forecasted budget. By the way, this is going to be more realistic than your
Orlando Sequera: bac, because this is taken into account their current rate of spending your eac. It's more realistic. It's more accurate, not realistic, more accurate than your bac, your bac. You did it with planning efforts, what you knew at the moment. But
Orlando Sequera: Eac is reality. It's what's happening in your project. Taking into account your current rate of spending. Okay, so.
Orlando Sequera: in order to understand how much it's gonna cost.
Orlando Sequera: how much money you need to complete the rest of the project.
Orlando Sequera: That's where you're gonna be using your etc. And your, etc. Is simply your forecasted budget, your eac, your estimate of completion minus the money that you have already spent in your project, which is your actual cost.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so just wanted to make sure that we were
Orlando Sequera: clear on
Orlando Sequera: and value management.
Orlando Sequera: By the way, you can still use our value management for other. It's not just for predictive. This approach that we just cover is mainly for predictive.
Orlando Sequera: That's what a that's to provide the the the context for the exam, but earn value. Management is also applied to adjunct projects.
Orlando Sequera: Excuse me, but you we don't need to to go that deeper into that.
Orlando Sequera: The Pmp. Exam
Orlando Sequera: doesn't go that far when it comes doesn't expect you to know in detail how everybody management is applicable to to add your projects. But I can tell you that
Orlando Sequera: they it takes into account. You compare the number of user story points completed to what you plan for at the beginning of the iteration, and you keep that in mind. So you use it. You compare actuals to plan values, same principle.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So i'm going to.
Orlando Sequera: I wanted to make sure that we were on the same page when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to and value management. I'm gonna check. I'm gonna review the Q a. For any questions.
Orlando Sequera: It's once, like 52 burn charge, and your 16 is bad, because it's close to velocity. Well, not necessarily
Orlando Sequera: because of that, it's just a historical record. That's what the velocity is.
Orlando Sequera: Is there any information, garner from the intersection of the earned value? Chart from different lines? It just to illustrate that it's going to fluctuate throughout your project. That was the whole point
Orlando Sequera: of that slide.
Orlando Sequera: There's another question and value manager. And what does it say? If Budget is a 1 million dollars. You complete 3 houses midway through the project, but the cost was
Orlando Sequera: 500,000. That is your actual cost. But you need to cut. You're missing the earned value and value the 3 houses that you completed. How can you express that in monetary terms
Orlando Sequera: based on the example that will be
Orlando Sequera: that will equal
Orlando Sequera: $300,000, because if it's a 1 million dollars, 10 houses each one is worth a 100,000.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, another question
Orlando Sequera: and value measure slide. What if the learning curve is also need to be into account? No, this is very linear. This is very linear you already took that into account in planning, and you're already addressing that. However, however.
Orlando Sequera: you
Orlando Sequera: when you calculate the earn value management, let's assume that you determine. Well, we were able to complete only 4 houses.
Orlando Sequera: and we plan for 5.
Orlando Sequera: There. There might be a. V.
Orlando Sequera: The explanation for that, do you? And value is just showing you where you are environmentally just showing you where you are, hey? It should be here
Orlando Sequera: at 5 houses, but you only completed 4.
Orlando Sequera: That might be valid. There might be a valid explanation for that, but it's just showing you where you are.
Orlando Sequera: It's not taken into account other variables. It's just showing you the based on earned value and plan value. That's it. Comparing your actuals, what happened to what you plan for? There might be a valid explanation for that. That's what you have to work on with your team members and with your stakeholders, because you're going to get
Orlando Sequera: You're going to get asked on that question.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A. Is their formulas different to apply to those cases. No, that's why we analyze all their variables to put them into context. This is just taking, taking, comparing your actuals against your plan values
Orlando Sequera: at
Orlando Sequera: another question
Orlando Sequera: at point in time we must have partial completion of other houses. Or yes, you have partial completion. But you're adding
Orlando Sequera: that partial completion express in dollars. That is your own value.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: that's how you do it.
Orlando Sequera: Do these calculations also also assume that you have a contract that is not fixed price.
Orlando Sequera: Do we address contracts with
Orlando Sequera: procurement? We're not taking that into account right now we are. We estimated the budget. When you build the budget. You estimate it the cost of each house. So we already
Orlando Sequera: we already address that in planning we are an execution of a project. Make sure that you also understand where we are in the project. We are an execution right now. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So we already took care of that. We already.
Orlando Sequera: That's how we were able to to determine the budget, for the project
Orlando Sequera: Will procurement cost changes that would affect budget powder, risk, register. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: Will that be part of the calculations here. No.
Orlando Sequera: we're just comparing
Orlando Sequera: your actual to what you plan for. That's all we're doing.
Orlando Sequera: Another important question for the exam. And I see this coming up
Orlando Sequera: during the exam.
Orlando Sequera: Do we need to memorize the formulas for the exam? And are we going to be applying this formulas in detail in the exam. The short answer is.
Orlando Sequera: No, however, I'm gonna put a big, a big asterisk here a big caveat. You need to know mainly the interpretation of the results
Orlando Sequera: the type of questions that you might get. Are
Orlando Sequera: you are working on Project X, Yc: this is an example, and that's why I want you to go to a test Prep and take questions. There are many and value mentioned related questions.
Orlando Sequera: You're working in
Orlando Sequera: a Project Xyc: right now, and your Cpi is 0 point 8, 6, and your spi is 1.0 2.
Orlando Sequera: What can you tell about that project?
Orlando Sequera: Usually that's the type of questions that you're going to be getting okay. So what can you say about the project? And they're going to give you the conditions and you have to select the right answer. So what can you say about the project? I want to open up the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Your
Orlando Sequera: Cpi is 0 point 8, 6, and your
Orlando Sequera: spi is
Orlando Sequera: 1.0 2.
Orlando Sequera: What can you say about the project
Orlando Sequera: over Budget and ahead of schedule? Correct. That's what you can tell about the project with that information, so please make sure that for the exam. And I'm going to post the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Please make sure that for the exam. You understand clearly the interpretation of the results.
Orlando Sequera: It doesn't hurt to know the formulas.
Orlando Sequera: They're not that complicated. And over time by repetition you can learn them. But more importantly, we need to know what a cpi of 1.0 2 means
Orlando Sequera: what an Sp: I have 0 point. 8, 2 means. We need to know that in regards to our project.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: and the same Ha! How that gonna impact the our eac. So
Orlando Sequera: we need to understand more importantly the definitions, then the interpretation of the results than anything else in previous versions of the Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: Yes, you have to know the formulas really well, but this exam is different. To start in 2021 is different. You need to know the interpretation of the results, for the scenario questions
Orlando Sequera: it doesn't it doesn't hurt. It does not hurt. If you're able to learn the
Orlando Sequera: by all means go ahead and do it. But more.
Orlando Sequera: You need to know the interpretation of the results.
Orlando Sequera: Okay
Orlando Sequera: in your resources that
Orlando Sequera: both in per sepio and in Github for those number CPU users. You have a list of
Orlando Sequera: the formulas for the Pmp. Exam. You have it there consolidated, put together for you, so you can review them and understand the interpretation. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right. So let's go ahead and continue with the content.
Orlando Sequera: We have
Orlando Sequera: few more.
Orlando Sequera: We have a lot of content still, some content to go over. So let's continue.
Orlando Sequera: And another aspect that we have to take into account in when it comes to project. Performance is quality.
Orlando Sequera: Quality is, as we learned before, is
Orlando Sequera: closely related to the acceptance criteria of our
Orlando Sequera: deliverables, and it is very important in the product approaches that we have to produce the project deliverables.
Orlando Sequera: What project teams evaluate the quality of a deliverable? Remember how well are we meeting their requirements. We do that through inspection and testing
Orlando Sequera: project activities are going to go through reviews and audits as well.
Orlando Sequera: It's really important. The main goal of quality is to
Orlando Sequera: focus on prevention and detection of possible errors and defects.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: that's what we do with quality.
Orlando Sequera: In order to evaluate and manage quality in our projects.
Orlando Sequera: We are going to.
Orlando Sequera: It's where you see comes into play co quality control.
Orlando Sequera: right? So we're going to use quality control. If we're following a predictive approach. We're going to use quality control to ensure that
Orlando Sequera: our deliverables. What the team members are producing with the project work is meeting functional and non functional requirements, because that's the whole point of quality. We're going to be able to identify possible improvements.
Orlando Sequera: continuous improvement. We talked about that before we have to make sure that we are aligned with compliance requirements, because remember non-compliance, can it's a make or break deal for your project. It can. It can have a major impact on your project negative. If we.
Orlando Sequera: in in the event of a non-compliance, we're gonna give feedback on any variances, and we're going to be able to identify potential approaches to address non-compliance. And this is an ongoing effort that we perform with
Orlando Sequera: quality control
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: we also have quality assurance.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, quality assurance happens before quality, assurance. I'm. Going to explain the the big difference between
Orlando Sequera: quality control and quality, assurance.
Orlando Sequera: quality, assurance. Qa.
Orlando Sequera: What
Orlando Sequera: we look at with Qa is how well are we following the
Orlando Sequera: the guidelines, the policies, the templates
Orlando Sequera: that we said that we were going to use.
Orlando Sequera: or the quality aspect of our project? They those opa that we review before the quality policy. That's a major opa, and any guideline anything that is applicable to our project. That's what we do with Qa: I'm. Going to use an example, a simple example.
Orlando Sequera: A restaurant, a restaurant is going to allow us to understand the difference between Q. A. And Qc. So Qa. In a restaurant is.
Orlando Sequera: for example, we look at the kitchen of the restaurant. All the employees work in the restaurant, not only the kitchen employees they have to.
Orlando Sequera: They have to follow the guidelines that come from the Department of Health right, the Health Department. They have guidelines, strict guidance that anyone that works at a restaurant has to follow. They have to wash their hands with warm water for at least 20 s. They what they have to wear
Orlando Sequera: nets for her nets for their hair. They have to wear gloves. They have to wear masks in some cases, etc. Right? So
Orlando Sequera: that is how well we followed. Those are, and then we have some guidance for storing food and for cleaning and sanitizing new 10 sales.
Orlando Sequera: and we also have guidance for keeping keeping the the the kitchen surfaces clean.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: Qa is going to help us to
Orlando Sequera: make sure that we are following that guidance. We're gonna perform an audit.
Orlando Sequera: And what we're going to look at is our
Orlando Sequera: our processes. How well are we following those quality processes that we have to follow? That's what we do with Qa in, and it's more from a. From a. From a proactive standpoint. Because if we have good Qa processes in place.
Orlando Sequera: that means that
Orlando Sequera: when
Orlando Sequera: when the deliverables are produced
Orlando Sequera: when Qc. Comes into play.
Orlando Sequera: then if you, if you have good Qa, it's going to translate into good Qc.
Orlando Sequera: Qc. In the restaurant.
Orlando Sequera: is with the deliverables. Where are the Liberals in the restaurant? Well, what a the meals that are prepared! How quickly are the meals being served to the customers are the tables clean it, the silver were, and dishes are they clean? So that is.
Orlando Sequera: you see it's customer facing whether the Liberals in the hand of the customer. So if we have dirty issues, that's a defect, that's a problem that we have to address, or if the service is taken, if if if it's taking too long for the service to bring the meals to the customers. That's the problem. That's: a. Qc. Problem: okay. So
Orlando Sequera: you a. Is how Well, we follow the quality, procedures and guidelines, you see, is
Orlando Sequera: about the deliverables in the hands of the customer. Any defects, any errors in front of the in in front of the customer. So that is the difference between the 2. We're talking about Qc. Here.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, and we do that in both approaches. We do it in predictive. We also do it in adjo.
Orlando Sequera: We go over in agile. We have.
Orlando Sequera: we have metrics that we have to meet, we make commitments, and we measure a
Orlando Sequera: how well things are going in our agile projects, and this is where they they! They! They lean 6. Sigma, the world can come and help us make sure that the number of defects is cap to a minimum.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: a little bit more about a quality audit
Orlando Sequera: quality Audits can be done
Orlando Sequera: in a scheduled way, or they can be done a
Orlando Sequera: randomly
Orlando Sequera: they can cover. We're trying to look at
Orlando Sequera: how well we're following the quality management policy
Orlando Sequera: we take into account the the cost of quality, the quality process, design. And we use analytical methods. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: with a quality audit, so is the the goal is to understand, how well are we following the quality processes and procedures that we said that we were going to follow for our project. And, by the way, Where, where are those?
Orlando Sequera: Why did you process some procedures that we have to follow for a project? What
Orlando Sequera: artifact that we create that covers
Orlando Sequera: a the quality, procedures and and guidelines for a project where we're what do I have to review what I have to check for that?
Orlando Sequera: No quality. We're talking about quality.
Orlando Sequera: The quality management plan.
Orlando Sequera: Correct the quality management plan.
Orlando Sequera: That's correct.
Orlando Sequera: All right. Great job. I'm going to pause the chat
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: quality control. Do you have multiple tools
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: we have a few here. You might have some
Orlando Sequera: data gathering techniques for probably control, like checklist or check sheets.
Orlando Sequera: You can use some statistical sampling, following statistical rules, in which imagine, if you're working in a manufacturing, setting, and you're producing a 1 million Parts, and to review every single part, it'd be very time consuming. So, using the statistical principles, you can get a sample of the entire population. And what happens to that
Orlando Sequera: sample is going to be applicable to the entire population.
Orlando Sequera: You can also send questioners and surveys. You can perform
Orlando Sequera: performance reviews. You can perform root costs analysis to understand the root cost of
Orlando Sequera: any problem. And you can also use some data representation techniques like cost and effect diagram, scatter diagrams, histograms, predator charts and control charts. So let's go over them in a little bit more detail
Orlando Sequera: to gather data. You can use check sheets to collect data. You can plot this data.
Orlando Sequera: You can understand the significant ones using the pareto chart which is gonna be able to allow you to isolate
Orlando Sequera: they
Orlando Sequera: more. The most important. The root cost of the problem is usually
Orlando Sequera: 20%. The prom of the the cost is account for 80% of the problems.
Orlando Sequera: and you can also use the cost and effect analysis to understand
Orlando Sequera: problems and possible solutions, and also a scatter analysis.
Orlando Sequera: One tool that is widely used in quality
Orlando Sequera: control is
Orlando Sequera: the Ishika. What diagram, which unfortunately has
Orlando Sequera: 3 or 4 different names.
Orlando Sequera: This is the Ishikawa diagram, also known as the Constant effect diagram.
Orlando Sequera: also known as the fishbone diagram, actually 4 names, also known as the yy diagram. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: it resembles a fish phone.
Orlando Sequera: The last name of the author that came up with this tool is Ishikawa
Orlando Sequera: A, and
Orlando Sequera: it's also called Why, Why? And it's also called a cost and effect diagram. So it's going to help you to break down the problem into different areas to different branches. So you can then start asking the questions to try to determine which one is the root cause of a problem.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, that's what you are able to achieve when you use the Ishikawa
Orlando Sequera: diagram, also known as Fish Pond diagram, also known as cost and effect diagram, also known as yy diagram.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: then we have
Orlando Sequera: scatter diagrams, and here you're trying to understand a relationship between 2 variables.
Orlando Sequera: Sometimes there might be a correlation, or sometimes there might not be a correlation at all. But that's what you're trying to determine. This is another tool that is using quality control.
Orlando Sequera: Another tool that we use in quality control is what we call control charts. It's basically which you're going to have a graphic representation of
Orlando Sequera: that. That's what we have with this.
Orlando Sequera: The blue line here.
Orlando Sequera: going up and down with the different plot points. That is a process. And we what you try
Orlando Sequera: to understand, based on certain specific limits, you usually have an upper control limit
Orlando Sequera: and a lower control limit. And then what is called a mean you're trying to understand if your process is
Orlando Sequera: under control.
Orlando Sequera: So in this case, if you have one plot point that is, outside of any of the control limits, upper control or lower control, your process is out of control.
Orlando Sequera: hey?
Orlando Sequera: Also pay attention to the rule of 7.
Orlando Sequera: The rule of 7 me means basically
Orlando Sequera: in very simple terms. It's not a quality Exam: this is, we just need to know when
Orlando Sequera: when a control chart is out of control
Orlando Sequera: or a process is out of control based on the control chart. If you have 7 plot points trending up or trending down, even within the opera control limit and the lower control limit. Your
Orlando Sequera: process is also out of control.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, that's what the rule of 7 means. That's
Orlando Sequera: as deep as we need to go when it comes to quality.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right. We also have another tool.
Orlando Sequera: We have what is called a histogram
Orlando Sequera: and pareto chart. It's going to help us to evaluate
Orlando Sequera: they.
Orlando Sequera: And whenever we have a problem with trying to isolate, which one is the most
Orlando Sequera: is a what 20 of the of the possible. If we're facing a problem, what 20% off the the the cost of the possible causes of the problem is is the corporate of 80% of the problems so based on this is applicable to a restaurant complaints. That is the permanent that we have
Orlando Sequera: basically telling us this predator.
Orlando Sequera: So the complaints are coming from the items being overpriced.
Orlando Sequera: So basically what is telling us here is that we have to
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: our prices in our menu, that's all is telling us so it doesn't address any root cost of the problem, or it does let alone a possible solution. It's just pointing out where are the most problems compared to a the possible areas
Orlando Sequera: associated with that problem. That's what we get with the pareto, chart or histogram.
Orlando Sequera: What else we have? A quality
Orlando Sequera: quality is, as we have said before.
Orlando Sequera: in a in of projects, is linked to the acceptance criteria. How well are we meeting that acceptance criteria?
Orlando Sequera: Okay. And this is important. We to use this. This criteria can be updated
Orlando Sequera: and a
Orlando Sequera: but we always gotta make sure that's how we manage quality in adaptive projects.
Orlando Sequera: and when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: very fine deliverables.
Orlando Sequera: the project teams. If we're following a Nigel approach. Correct team is gonna verify deliverable based on quality standards
Orlando Sequera: based on the level of tolerance and quality metrics.
Orlando Sequera: There the Liberals are gonna be presenting like and accepted by the customer we're gonna perform.
Orlando Sequera: This is what we mean by scope validation. We do it in that we're going to present the deliverables at the end of each iteration in the we're going to capture that sign off that acceptance from the customers, some that they will turn, maybe accept it. Some of them are not going to be accepted. But that's
Orlando Sequera: and verify the Liberals, because we have to go through that's called verification process with the team members. That's our first safety net that we have when it comes to quality in address and also in predictive. So it's internally with the team. We verify the deliberals.
Orlando Sequera: and then internally with the team. And then we validate
Orlando Sequera: that deliverables with the customer. That's the difference between verification that is done by the team members. The validation is done with the customers.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: also.
Orlando Sequera: as we go through this processes.
Orlando Sequera: you probably have seen, as some of you have pointed, that out
Orlando Sequera: there are
Orlando Sequera: going to be risks
Orlando Sequera: that are going to that might come up
Orlando Sequera: based on when we are monitoring the performance of our project. Absolutely so. This is huge.
Orlando Sequera: especially when it comes to quality risk. Monitoring
Orlando Sequera: is ongoing and risk. Analysis is an ongoing process, and they have an impact on quality. So we got. We have to take that into account.
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to
Orlando Sequera: that the fragile approaches we take into account
Orlando Sequera: risk management. We try, we try to uncover and address. Uncertainty so risks as early as possible in our project, and part of the the work that the team is going to be doing in each iteration is also addressing risks
Orlando Sequera: as early as possible in the project.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, and we do the same in the predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: We have to address those risks as they as they come over
Orlando Sequera: all right
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to monitoring risks. And this is specific to predictive
Orlando Sequera: the guidance that we should follow.
Orlando Sequera: The decision making process should be based on current information about overall risk exposure to our project and individual risks. We have to continuously monitor the status of those risks.
Orlando Sequera: We have to constantly
Orlando Sequera: evaluate
Orlando Sequera: and try to identify new risks because risks evolve risks are not static. They are dynamic. They evolve over time.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: any written
Orlando Sequera: any risk that we, at the new risk that we identify. We need to add them to our risk register.
Orlando Sequera: We have to also reassess current risks. What what do we mean by that reassess, the probability of impact?
Orlando Sequera: I'm. Sorry, reassess, the probability of a current or likelihood
Orlando Sequera: and reassess the impact
Orlando Sequera: that can also evolve over time
Orlando Sequera: and any risks that we were able to address that materialize and address a.
Orlando Sequera: we close them in our race register. Okay. And this is an ongoing
Orlando Sequera: task.
Orlando Sequera: This is what we call monitoring risks
Orlando Sequera: and a few guidelines, questions that can help us to to do that.
Orlando Sequera: our our project assumptions still valid.
Orlando Sequera: And this is where some of the questions that that some of you have a about in value management.
Orlando Sequera: the price increase of some of the materials that we're using. Those are assumptions that we made. We have to validate their assumptions, those assumptions.
Orlando Sequera: And because that can also change.
Orlando Sequera: we are working with supplier a, and we learn in the past. They work. They deliver on time. But now supplier a is being affected by the global supply chain issues, and they're not going to be delivering on time. Let's validate Those assumptions
Orlando Sequera: have
Orlando Sequera: change, or have they been retired? So that's why we evaluate risks.
Orlando Sequera: Are we following risk management policies and procedures as we should.
Good
Orlando Sequera: have we been able.
Orlando Sequera: since we identified new risks?
Orlando Sequera: Have we modified our contingency reserves
Orlando Sequera: Initially, we have only 10. We had only 10 risks identified. Now we have 25
Orlando Sequera: have continuously, research being modified. We need money, and we need time to address those risks. They materialize. Now we have more? Have
Orlando Sequera: Have we don't? Have we done that? We have more money and more time to address those possible new risks? Do we need to perform a risk. Audit.
hey?
Orlando Sequera: All right, and that takes us to.
Orlando Sequera: They reserves.
Orlando Sequera: We have to perform
Orlando Sequera: a reserve analysis.
Orlando Sequera: to understand
Orlando Sequera: the amount of risk on the project.
Orlando Sequera: and the amount of money that we need in our
Orlando Sequera: scale, in in our, in our budget, and also in the amount of time that we need in our schedule
Orlando Sequera: to address
Orlando Sequera: those risks
Orlando Sequera: that remain in our risk Register. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: some of you, by
Orlando Sequera: wonder. Well how much money on top of what we
Orlando Sequera: the budget to address.
Orlando Sequera: to address possible risks
Orlando Sequera: for contingency reserves? Do we need to have? I have seen that, as I mentioned before, it changes from
Orlando Sequera: organization, to organization, industry to industry. I have seen in some cases that is 5%,
Orlando Sequera: some other places I have seen. I have seen 10%.
Orlando Sequera: It changes. Okay, but
Orlando Sequera: those are the values that I have seen.
Orlando Sequera: Then
Orlando Sequera: remember that we also have management reserves. It's not only contingency reserves, so what we're doing here is to go back. This we did. We do initially in planning.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, we determine how much money, how much buffer we need in continuous to reserves for those risks that we identify.
Orlando Sequera: and also how much money and how much time do we need in the management reserves
Orlando Sequera: to address risks that we were not able to identify.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: over time. As we work in our project, we have to reevaluate that and review the reserves. This is what we're doing here. Oh, well! When we we were conducting our planning efforts
Orlando Sequera: at the beginning of our project, we accounted for 25 risks or 50 risks, for now we have a 100 open risks in our project.
Orlando Sequera: So we have to review the the reserves
Orlando Sequera: we have to review the contingency reserves on the management reserves, and whether to determine whether we need more money on time or we are okay.
Orlando Sequera: right? So that is, that's what we do here.
Orlando Sequera: Then.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to the the race register. This is a living document.
Orlando Sequera: Any new risk that
Orlando Sequera: it's identified at any point in the project at any moment has to be added to your risk register. You gotta remind your
Orlando Sequera: your team members and also your stakeholders external stakeholders. That risk identification did not end
Orlando Sequera: when when we were planning. We? We're working on planning efforts. It's an ongoing effort. Okay, Any new brisks
Orlando Sequera: that anybody is able to identify that could affect the project. They need to make its way to the risk register. This is ongoing through the entire life cycle of the project, and any existing risks.
Orlando Sequera: If the probability of occurrence changes or
Orlando Sequera: the impact
Orlando Sequera: changes that needs to be updated as well in the risk register.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to risks in your projects.
Orlando Sequera: i'm gonna open up the chat for
Orlando Sequera: a few seconds. Which ones do you think of? The most serious?
Orlando Sequera: The chat is.
Orlando Sequera: I'm. Past
Orlando Sequera: negative race Exactly. And any race that could impact your
Orlando Sequera: have any impacts that could have any risk that could affect your
Orlando Sequera: If your broadcast, your scheduled, etc., your scope, etc. So correct
Orlando Sequera: compliance
Orlando Sequera: issues, etc. Great job.
Orlando Sequera: I'm: going to post a chat
Orlando Sequera: correct
Orlando Sequera: in. Now.
Orlando Sequera: again.
Orlando Sequera: one super important aspect. This is a category of of risk category. Okay, and it's also a type of requirement that we have to address compliance. We mentioned that on day one and we're mentioning now that again on day 5 is super important to keep in mind for the exam and for your
Orlando Sequera: for your daily tasks as a project manager, compliance, and non-compliance are the highest priority in any risk management project
Orlando Sequera: a environment in any risk, match and product environment. The anything related to compliance, risk, compliance, related risk are huge, because this is 1 one of the things that can make or break your project. Okay. So
Orlando Sequera: it is important to have either a designated stakeholder
Orlando Sequera: or a group of stakeholders that are accountable for each compliance, requirement for your project, and also that are authorized to sign off and approve any compliance requirements.
Orlando Sequera: Many of these approval, final approvals may not be possible until shortly before project completion. That's
Orlando Sequera: in most cases, that's what happens, because
Orlando Sequera: compliance is subject to ongoing, testing, ongoing verification ongoing validation. During the project. So you might have to wait until the very end of the project in some cases to get those final approvals, and that's fine. Right
Orlando Sequera: A. And then they continue. This continued review is going to help you to catch any potential threats.
Orlando Sequera: to compliance and determine the right or the best course of action to address the non-compliance before it has an impact on your project.
Orlando Sequera: whether it is on your scheduled, your cost or any other area of your project. Okay, that is the benefit that comes with this compliance. Sign off so you can take
Orlando Sequera: action before an accident. The accident happens.
Orlando Sequera: Do you also have to take into account business value. This is tied up to
Orlando Sequera: A. The ways of working with this as accurate, and you also value is important. We get a monitor and make sure that we are
Orlando Sequera: covering. We are.
Orlando Sequera: it add in value with our project. Right? We have to make sure. Always
Orlando Sequera: it's. It's a it. Keep. Keep us in check. Keep the team, keep you yourself as a Pm. That Are we adding value? We are. Are we building? Are we adding value to the organization. What we're doing this is huge.
Orlando Sequera: This is super super super, important for you as a project manager always ask that question as a validation to the work that is being done by the team. Are we adding value with what we're doing with the project? So it's always good to go through that check in process with value.
Orlando Sequera: All right, so
Orlando Sequera: so far we have covered.
Orlando Sequera: This is what we cover in this lesson. It's about monitoring value that in the scope
Orlando Sequera: Measure Ongoing progress based on methodology, modify the schedule as needed based on the methodology we're looking at the performance. This is where things are happening in the project. Okay, think things are being done. We'll coordinate with the products on operations. We pay attention to budget variations and we're we're governing process
Orlando Sequera: to adjust as needed.
Orlando Sequera: We look at and examine the business value throughout the project.
Orlando Sequera: and we continually survey product deliver quality and recommend options for improvement based on quality gaps
Orlando Sequera: I would like to
Orlando Sequera: address
Orlando Sequera: would like to address any questions before we come break. We're gonna take a break in a few minutes, but i'm gonna take a look at
Orlando Sequera: the Q. And a. And address
Orlando Sequera: questions before we go on break
all right.
Orlando Sequera: During the exam any calculations require not can Mo. In most cases the answer is, no. But you need to know the interpretation. You need to know what those values mean.
Orlando Sequera: It doesn't hurt to know the formulas, but
Orlando Sequera: in this version of the exam it's more about interpretations, more of our critical thinking.
Orlando Sequera: There's a question in the Q. A. How does spa change. If earn value, doesn't match, plan, value.
Orlando Sequera: sole fire houses, and no, it's up. You build. You build. The project is to build, not to sell fire. Houses is to build
Orlando Sequera: 10 houses in
Orlando Sequera: in a year.
Orlando Sequera: Okay?
Orlando Sequera: No, no, no, you're You're mixing a few things here. You're it's it's your You're overthinking it. A little bit.
Orlando Sequera: I'm gonna read the question again. How does spa change? If earn value doesn't match plan value? Well, you gotta calculate
Orlando Sequera: and value first
Orlando Sequera: and then calculate your plan. Value.
Orlando Sequera: plan values what you plan for, and value is
Orlando Sequera: how much work has been completed. Expressed in monetary terms. You completed 4 houses, $400,000 for that particular exempt. The rest of the question says: Sold 5 houses in 6 months. No, that's not your project. Your product is not selling houses. It's building houses. That is.
Orlando Sequera: you're mixing a few variables that are not applicable to the scenario. It pulls down. Everybody mentioned Bolst down to compare actual what happens
Orlando Sequera: in reality to what you plan for. That's all it is, that's all. It is nothing else.
Orlando Sequera: Another question in the chat. But if we are overspending and ahead of schedule that is in bad. If you're over we'll tell that to your stakeholder that you're over spending you spending more money. I,
Orlando Sequera: I am a 100% sure that they are going to disagree.
Orlando Sequera: If you're over spending you're in trouble. Your schedule is not in trouble, but your budget is
Orlando Sequera: in value, isn't it bad
Orlando Sequera: to be either
Orlando Sequera: over on on their budget. No.
Orlando Sequera: a. If you are over budget, it means that you are over spending. If you're under budget, it means that you are
Orlando Sequera: understanding.
Orlando Sequera: and that's good for your project as a Pm. Wouldn't you want to be as close
Orlando Sequera: to budget as possible. Yes, but there's always gonna be a variance. There's always gonna be a variance if you are under spending.
Orlando Sequera: if you are under. But it is good because you are getting more.
Orlando Sequera: You're not. You're spending less than what you said that you were going to spend. If you tell that to your stakeholders. They're going to like it
Orlando Sequera: if I hire someone, and every time they complete a job for me it is on their budget or completed early, I will think they are send back, and no, necessarily we're not. That is not the case here. Remember that we're using estimation techniques to be as accurate as possible. So we're not. Send back in anything here.
Orlando Sequera: It's just it's it's You're mixing a couple of things that are not a
Orlando Sequera: that are not applicable.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: slide 61.
Orlando Sequera: It's confusing, because when it comes to cost variance or budget, it's fair to have a lower number to be under budget. But for efficiency to have a higher number, but it shows our budget. No, we clarified that this slide was incorrect in that, for the Cpi over budget
Orlando Sequera: is that it goes on the on the opposite side. We already clarify that
Orlando Sequera: over budget is bad for cost variance, and it's also that for Cpi, if it's 0 point, something less than one.
Orlando Sequera: If it's less than one, for your Cpi is bad. It's over Budget, you're overspending. Okay, Make sure that you understand that
Orlando Sequera: it seems that to get earned value you need to understand per unit cost. Not necessarily. But you need to understand how much work have you completed express in monetary terms.
Orlando Sequera: What is an acceptable variance percentage between planning and execution? That's what you decide. That's what you define with the threshold
Orlando Sequera: that's gonna come from the organization.
Orlando Sequera: That is part of your a opa. That's why we incorporated that to our
Orlando Sequera: budget
Orlando Sequera: A to a
Orlando Sequera: our budget management plan and our schedule management plan. You need to understand that from the organization they're going to give you those guidelines.
Orlando Sequera: Would you happen to have a resource that includes a diagram showing what project plans and documents are completed during each phase.
Orlando Sequera: You can review the resources
Orlando Sequera: for that.
Orlando Sequera: That's the Pmo. Wrangle. Q. A. Qc.
Orlando Sequera: You gotta get the guidelines from. They might give you some of the templates
Orlando Sequera: for. Or if you, if you have a quality department in the organization, get the information from that quality policy is important, and it changes from industry to industry. Organization to organization
Orlando Sequera: clearly makes a huge difference. Absolutely
Orlando Sequera: slight. 70 says, Control quality. You're saying Qc. Quality control well in in it's the same context where we have to control our quality. Right? We do that. That's Qc. Why, it we control.
Orlando Sequera: as you'll see. Is this the shops lifestyle center project that we're using in the as an example in our slides.
Orlando Sequera: What is the difference between Q. A. And Qc.
Orlando Sequera: One more time. Absolutely, Qa. Is, how well are we following the quality procedures, quality guidelines?
Orlando Sequera: A. The quality policy. Remember the restaurant example. Have we following the quality guidance that are needed? Are we washing our hands that we were in the her nets? Are we storing the food properly? Are we keeping all the kitchen surfaces sanitized as needed. Are we keeping the restaurant sanitized as needed?
Orlando Sequera: How well are we following those guidelines? That is Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: But Qc. Is about the delivery. It's customer face, and they're deliverable right in the restaurant. It will be our the meals being served on a in a timely manner.
Orlando Sequera: are the tables and silver were clean, and that are the dishes clean are the meals being prepared as per the customer. Specifications like? If it's stake, is it well done? They want it well done. Are they getting well done or not? Are they getting medium rare? So that is Qc. Do? And
Orlando Sequera: And if you're not.
Orlando Sequera: align with your
Orlando Sequera: it with your customers. If requirements, then that will be a defect. Let's assume that a customer asks for well, don't steak, and they will serve medium rare. That will be a defect if chances are that it's gonna be sent back to the kitchen until it gets cooked, and that will be a defect and
Orlando Sequera: cooking the stake again. That's re-work. Right? So that's the difference. Qc. Is about a. The deliverables it themselves
Orlando Sequera: is customer facing Qa. Is more it is related to. How well are we following the quality, guidance, and procedures that we said that we were going to follow?
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: Let me go back.
Orlando Sequera: Who perform the quality control, audit
Orlando Sequera: the team, does it board order depending on the industry. You might have external entities that can do that. It changes from organization to organization, but the team does it. It's called verification. Is it also quality quality control
Orlando Sequera: control charts? We cover enough what we need to know for the exam. I will recommend to watch the replay. We don't need to go that deep into that. It's just a tool that allows us to understand. If if a process is out of control.
Orlando Sequera: at what point? That's the project.
Orlando Sequera: Do the project? Do we ask if a risk out of is needed? Usually Don't ask for that. It happens you wanna
Orlando Sequera: It can happen
Orlando Sequera: randomly, or it can happen.
Orlando Sequera: or it can be scheduled.
Orlando Sequera: How it's Risk monitoring don in agile approach. As this prints are completed, Remember what we mentioned before
Orlando Sequera: risks that are identified. They come. They are part of the backlog. They prioritize, prioritized by the team, and they're also incorporated to their iteration backlog, so they can be addressed as early as possible in the project.
Orlando Sequera: I'm. Having a hard time differentiating between product and product product it's about
Orlando Sequera: functionality and specification project is the work that we have to complete to produce
Orlando Sequera: those product requirements project work. So that is, I will recommend you to review the recordings of the session. So I think we have cover that
Orlando Sequera: properly.
Orlando Sequera: What triggers the risk audit Rule 7. No rule of 7 only points out that a process is out of control.
Orlando Sequera: You mentioned a quality management plan, but I don't see any mention of this in the slides. No. We talked about the quality management plan earlier. When we mentioned quality, we have to create a plan for every single area. So we did mention the quality management plan
Orlando Sequera: is this: this is part of quality. We do that in planning.
Orlando Sequera: If we have
Orlando Sequera: plus 5% negative variance, it will be call as bad planning. Not necessarily. It depends on the threshold that you have in the organization.
Orlando Sequera: since risk registers keeping updated will continue to be updated as well. Yes, if you start.
Orlando Sequera: identify more risks. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: what if your plan value is higher span
Orlando Sequera: at the beginning of the project?
Orlando Sequera: A. You is what you plan for right express in monetary value.
Orlando Sequera: Can you go? Can you quickly go over slide Number 84? What do you think of a risk and a project? Which one do you think of the most serious?
Orlando Sequera: I'm going to agree with compliance that can make a break
Orlando Sequera: a project, but also risk from the scale it risks associated with the main constraint of the organization. If the main constraint, the organization is
Orlando Sequera: schedule, for example, those are are also at the top of my will be at the top of my priorities. But
Orlando Sequera: compliance is huge that can make a break your project.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right. So let's go ahead. We'll still have a couple of minutes
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: another question, as we, as we have seen in current times, with with Covid and inflation, is it better to add a buffer to the estimated cost in case of unforeseen circumstances, or just use current nose
Orlando Sequera: for a current accurate estimate. No, you can add that Buffer and that buffer has a name management reserves.
Orlando Sequera: but if you're able to identify them, then they are your contingency reserve. So we do that
Orlando Sequera: I get lost in the initial charge for a/C. Actual cost is the money that you have spent in your project.
Orlando Sequera: Qa: You can also look this up.
Orlando Sequera: It is quality, assurance of making sure that it is compliant. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: if you have good quality assurance, good. Qa. Translates into good Qc. Less defects, so it's better to take the time to do things the right way. Train our people in following the right guidelines.
Orlando Sequera: If they use specialized equipment in the kitchen, make sure that they're trained. They use how they know how to use the dishwasher machine or this washing machine they are train on. They got on the guidelines from the Health Department in watching their hands.
Orlando Sequera: So take the time and invest in your
Orlando Sequera: in your
Orlando Sequera: in your Qa. That's gonna translate to better. Qc.
Orlando Sequera: Q. A. Slightly different, depending on on the industry that you're working with Absolutely, absolutely. But the principle is the same. The application is going to be different.
Orlando Sequera: What happens to the unused management and continuous yourself at the end of the pretty great question. Break question if
Orlando Sequera: if you
Orlando Sequera: you can always. And we're gonna talk about that in a minute with change control process, it is possible to create a change, request, and use.
Orlando Sequera: We have come to a point that the level of uncertainty
Orlando Sequera: has decreased. We haven't.
Orlando Sequera: identified any other risk, and we have money available in the contingency reserves and the management reserves. We can create a change request
Orlando Sequera: that gets routed to the change control board, and we can add that money to our, to our budget
Orlando Sequera: and re baseline our budget. It is possible to do that. It is possible to it happens a lot
Orlando Sequera: actually
Orlando Sequera: great question
Orlando Sequera: in procurement. Innovative and flexible contracts can account for the unpredictable
Orlando Sequera: on predictability in the suppliers
Orlando Sequera: material labor which can alleviate risk. Yes, yes, you try to tie the type of contract to the situation, to make it as flexible as possible. That is
Orlando Sequera: a true statement.
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: left over money. Get started to bonuses.
Orlando Sequera: Not necessarily, but
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: all right. So I think we're cut up with the questions. Now we're going to take a 10 min break, and we'll be back
Orlando Sequera: in 10 min, and we're going to continue
Orlando Sequera: with our
Orlando Sequera: less.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to continue with our class.
Orlando Sequera: And the next topic that we're going to be covering is managing project issues and impediments. So we're going to be covering now.
Orlando Sequera: and here we have.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to be addressing
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: impediments, obstacles, and blockers, right
Orlando Sequera: mainly
Orlando Sequera: they the the Exam Continental, and that's why we're I mentioned this.
Orlando Sequera: They
Orlando Sequera: mentioned in the exam Content outline
Orlando Sequera: all 3 of them
Orlando Sequera: impediments, obstacles, and blockers in essence.
Orlando Sequera: Anything that prevents
Orlando Sequera: your team members from doing the work. That's what is. Consider
Orlando Sequera: impediment, obstacle and blocker right. So impediment and blocker they are synonyms. They both mean a must to obstacle that prevents the team from achieving the the objectives right?
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: this is where
Orlando Sequera: what we have to do as servant leaders, we have to help our teams
Orlando Sequera: to remove in removing any impediments, any obstacles, any blockers, anything that is preventing them from doing the work. That is part of Georgia as a servant leader in helping your teams
Orlando Sequera: it to be able to
Orlando Sequera: complete their work.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: one thing that I wanted to point out you might be wondering. Can you give us some examples of that? Well, it could be that for a specific task.
Orlando Sequera: They need a specific piece of equipment. Let's assume, for example, that we're trying to develop the software for the accounting department, and
Orlando Sequera: they need to
Orlando Sequera: the task or not. The task they they they're developing is the monthly sales report, and it has to be generated in a Pdf. Format.
Orlando Sequera: We don't have a tool that can allow our developers to generate. Pdf. Format reports.
Orlando Sequera: That will be
Orlando Sequera: an obstacle in this case.
Orlando Sequera: and your job as a servant leader. If you're a team lead
Orlando Sequera: and the pro or the project manager. You have to help your team in members in getting that software. That is
Orlando Sequera: your job is part of your job to make sure that they have the tools and
Orlando Sequera: have but another.
Orlando Sequera: Another aspect that another form of obstacle that might be affecting the team is
Orlando Sequera: something that we mentioned yesterday. We have a stakeholder that is constantly calling the team members directly asking for updates on the work that is being done, and it's affecting the team, the team members performance. It's affecting their ability to concentrate on work
Orlando Sequera: on the items that need to be addressed so that could be an I that's another obstacle. So in that case
Orlando Sequera: we have to address that obstacle that that will be communicating with your
Orlando Sequera: stakeholder.
Orlando Sequera: providing the awareness, Mr. Stakeholder, miss a stakeholder.
Orlando Sequera: I am your point of contact. You Would you would like to to know about the status of the project? Please
Orlando Sequera: feel free to contact me. That is part of my responsibility. I am the one I am the the spokesperson of the team.
Orlando Sequera: and they'll be more than happy to provide you with information. If I don't have it available right away, i'll make sure that I get it for you. So that is also another type of auster obstacle that they might face. We are in charge of removing that. So it's tied up to
Orlando Sequera: serve and leadership. Make sure that you are able to keep that in mind
Orlando Sequera: obstacle is a it's a long term that's very common in project management. So please make sure that we are. That's what we mean with impediments, obstacles, and blockers. And that's what we have to address.
Orlando Sequera: We have to remove those impediments, obstacles and blockers that are preventing the team from completing the work.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: actually, when it comes to issues
Orlando Sequera: going back to our
Orlando Sequera: definition of risk.
Orlando Sequera: So i'm going to ask you this question. Please feel free
Orlando Sequera: to use the chat. I'm. Going to open up the chat for
Orlando Sequera: for a few seconds
Orlando Sequera: is our risks and issues the same.
Orlando Sequera: What what do you think?
Orlando Sequera: No, correct?
Orlando Sequera: What is the difference between issues and risks?
Orlando Sequera: It's a materialized for it. Correct? You guys are right on track, an issue something that already happened. There's no uncertainty. It happened
Orlando Sequera: so exactly exactly correct. I'm gonna post the chat now. Great job, Great job. No issues happen. Risk
Orlando Sequera: Haven't happened. They they may or may not happen. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: so great job. I think the most of you got it.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: there's no more uncertainty when it comes to an issue.
Orlando Sequera: An impediment is going to be an obstacle that is preventing the team to
Orlando Sequera: complete their objectives. It could be lack of equipment, lack of material, lack of time. It could be an a, a, a stakeholder that is not letting them do their work. They can. They can come in many way, shapes or form. So
Orlando Sequera: if we're following a predictive approach we're going to, and we encounter an issue.
Orlando Sequera: Then what we do is we have to create another
Orlando Sequera: register that we call the issue lock, because issues are very important. We we need to track them separately. We need that. We're gonna work in conjunction with our risk register. But we need a specific list of issues, and we call that issue log
Orlando Sequera: in agile projects. We have what is called an impediment lock. It's the same principle. It's just a. It's just a list of
Orlando Sequera: impediments that we're encountering in our project, and we're keeping track of them. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: risks and issues
Orlando Sequera: with risks again.
Orlando Sequera: We're looking at the future is some is something that may or may not happen. Uncertainty, right may
Orlando Sequera: or may not happen.
Orlando Sequera: or I should probably say may not happen.
Orlando Sequera: It happened okay.
Orlando Sequera: As we learn, risks can be positive or negative, and we document risks
Orlando Sequera: in the risk register and the responses we call them risk responses.
Orlando Sequera: When
Orlando Sequera: negative risks come to fruition
Orlando Sequera: they become issues. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: they become issues.
Orlando Sequera: I'm gonna give you an example a of a risk and an issue just the the way we face it
Orlando Sequera: makes it at risk
Orlando Sequera: or an issue
Orlando Sequera: as supplier might go. And i'm gonna ask you. Actually, I want to ask you.
Orlando Sequera: I'm gonna i'm past the chat for a second.
Orlando Sequera: A supplier might go on strike. Is that an issue or a risk?
Orlando Sequera: That's a risk might go on strike might, might, might go on strike. May or may not my gone strike? That will make it a risk.
Orlando Sequera: But what if I would? What if I were to say a supplier has gone on strike? Is that an issue or a risk?
Orlando Sequera: That's our issue? Right? There's no more uncertainty. It happened. They are on strike right now. So that is the difference between a new at risk and an issue with a simple example.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: when it comes, and i'm going to press the chat
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to issues.
Orlando Sequera: We are focused on the present. There's no more. Insert the we have to act. They're always going to be negative, because an issue is a negative risk that came to fruition, a threat.
Orlando Sequera: a negative risk or threat that came to fruition. They have to be documented separately in what we call issue log and their responses for issues. We call them workarounds
Orlando Sequera: and issues also
Orlando Sequera: have multiple categories, as risks.
Orlando Sequera: They can be related to quality communications, procurement.
Orlando Sequera: scope, change control.
Orlando Sequera: and these are multiple areas of our project. So they can come.
Orlando Sequera: They these are the areas. Of course, risk management
Orlando Sequera: schedule control cost control, project variance analysis. So these are the areas in a project that are prone to issues.
Orlando Sequera: If we're following a predictive approach. That is.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: what do we do about
Orlando Sequera: issue resolution?
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: this is important. And this is also another component of those
Orlando Sequera: project status reports that I mentioned.
Orlando Sequera: You have to also address issues and provide status on issues. So you create your issue log. It's Another registers very similar to to the risk register. It's another spreadsheet that you're going to create just
Orlando Sequera: or issues negative risks that materialize
Orlando Sequera: the same way that we do with risks. We have to assign an owner to each issue. This is the individual. The owner is the individual that is going to track that issue to completion.
Orlando Sequera: We should a good practices to give realistic due dates
Orlando Sequera: to the issues
Orlando Sequera: they should become
Orlando Sequera: at regular topic. They are. This is a this is something that happens in every organization. Issues are covered during every status meeting, and we have our job as project managers is try to keep these issues under control. The number of issues open under control. Otherwise that's a major
Orlando Sequera: problem for your project. We gotta keep it under control, and if we need to escalate them we cannot wait. We have to be proactive
Orlando Sequera: if we need someone else. Intervention to solve them, make sure that it happens in a timely manner so very similar to the risk register. But in this case we have.
Orlando Sequera: we can have the the
Orlando Sequera: the description. When we open the actual issue.
Orlando Sequera: they do they, but it has to be realistic. If something, if it's something complex, you shouldn't give it at the the 2 days, you know a due date. It's gonna be. We're gonna closer in 2 days, and we know right of the right. That is something complex.
Orlando Sequera: It is something high priority made low priority. We have to prioritize as much as possible, assign an owner. This is the individual that is responsible to track this issue to completion.
Orlando Sequera: They their response, and you might have TV. These if you don't know the response. But you're gonna need to work with other people to get the response. Then the status and any comments as more information becomes available. So this is gonna be part of your bread and butter as a project manager. It's important that we keep
Orlando Sequera: this issue lock up to date at all times as well.
Orlando Sequera: Hey? For adjunct we can discover impairments using scrum.
Orlando Sequera: and the steps that we follow are that we discover the problem or cost. We try to solve it.
Orlando Sequera: and the scrum master is in charge as a servant leader to find the resolution with the concerned parties.
Orlando Sequera: It can
Orlando Sequera: be with dealing with conflict somewhere else in the organization or in resolution, can help your organization grow in agility. So, as a servant leader, the the team leave or scrum master is going to be in charge of helping solving impediments. That's what we do, as several leaders is we? If we are following
Orlando Sequera: an agile approach.
Orlando Sequera: A. When it comes to reviewing pediments.
Orlando Sequera: we have to track those impediments
Orlando Sequera: the same that we do in predictive. We have to track ratio. So here we have to track our impediments.
Orlando Sequera: we might have to reprioritize
Orlando Sequera: our product backlog.
Orlando Sequera: So we also have to look because we got to pay attention to possible promise, and
Orlando Sequera: that those to be brought up, and if they need to be addressed as part of the workload of the team in the next iteration we have to do that
Orlando Sequera: the daily stand-up meeting is a great way to keep
Orlando Sequera: deeper ourselves up to date when it comes to impediments, because
Orlando Sequera: what we cover in the daily stand-up meeting. We cover 3 things, and it's mainly the team members
Orlando Sequera: that are
Orlando Sequera: coordinating with each other.
Orlando Sequera: They are answering 3 questions. The first one is what they worked on the day before. The the second one is what they're gonna be working on today, and the third one is if they have an impediments, blockers, or obstacles that are preventing them from doing their work.
Orlando Sequera: So that is part of the content that is covered in the daily stand up in as servant leaders that we are. We're we're going to take that information from there.
Orlando Sequera: and we're going to address and remove those
Orlando Sequera: impediments, blockers, and obstacles.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And I'm: sure that this is not
Orlando Sequera: something new to you. I'm sure that most of you a deal
Orlando Sequera: have some a a risk, and also some issue a solving mechanism in place.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: So what we have covered so far is
Orlando Sequera: we have talked about project issues. Now we understand clearly the definition, the difference
Orlando Sequera: a and also a definition of an issue. What is the difference between a risk and an issue?
Orlando Sequera: How can we
Orlando Sequera: attack the issue?
Orlando Sequera: A collaborative, relevant stakeholders? And then we talked about impediments, obstacles, and blockers as servant leaders. See, I want you to start seeing how that topic of several leadership comes into play
Orlando Sequera: throughout the entire content. So that's why I mentioned before. Look at the questions from the perspective of a servant leader.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, we have to help the team in removing those impediments, obstacles, or blockers, anything that is preventing them from completing the work.
Orlando Sequera: Now we are going to talk about changes. This topic is important
Orlando Sequera: also for the Pmp. Exam. Because change is going to happen.
Orlando Sequera: Change is going to happen, but as long as we have a process in place that allows us to manage those changes, regardless of the approach. Whether it is
Orlando Sequera: a predictive approach or an adaptive approach, we can manage project changes.
Orlando Sequera: but we have to understand and acknowledge the fact that change is going to happen.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So everything starts with
Orlando Sequera: the definition of what constitutes a change in a project.
Orlando Sequera: We have to define that in our change minute.
Orlando Sequera: What is a change? Change can come from anywhere. It can be internal, from to the project. It can be external to the team put internal to the organization, or it may. He might come even from outside the organization, right
Orlando Sequera: from, for example, a new regulation. That's why we take into account enterprise, environmental factors, right? A change is something that changes one of the baselines that we have for our project.
Orlando Sequera: and also the project attitude towards change is going to depend on the life cycle that we chose. Whether we go agile or whether we go
Orlando Sequera: a predictive.
Orlando Sequera: they have
Orlando Sequera: both approaches, have different ways to manage change, but they still manage
Orlando Sequera: That we still have an approach to manage changes. To change is is always going to happen. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: what can cost a change in a project.
Orlando Sequera: The first one is.
Orlando Sequera: we might have inaccurate initial estimates that might happen.
Orlando Sequera: Remember that an estimate is nothing but an approximation.
Orlando Sequera: And if we have team members that are not really experience, or they don't have all the information. That's why we work at the beginning of our project in gathering all those opa's organization process assets.
Orlando Sequera: I I'll also make sure that we understand all the Aefs enterprise and marital factors that can help us in, and we validate our assumptions. And I'm talking full predictive right now
Orlando Sequera: to make sure that we can come up with
Orlando Sequera: our estimates as accurately as possible. Okay. But still things change.
Orlando Sequera: and it is possible that
Orlando Sequera: we
Orlando Sequera: didn't have all the information, and we might have some inaccurate initial estimates, and that is going to drive changes in your project, or that
Orlando Sequera: there was a change in the specifications of your project.
Orlando Sequera: A. That also happens as a change in scope
Orlando Sequera: that's gonna drive a change in your project, or that we missed requirements that can happen, too.
Orlando Sequera: Remember that when we were
Orlando Sequera: early in the projects we use multiple techniques
Orlando Sequera: for requirement gathering.
Orlando Sequera: But we might miss some requirements that happens all the time, and that's gonna drive changes to the project.
Orlando Sequera: or that we have new regulations. That's an ef right they were. There are new regulations that in our industry, and we have
Orlando Sequera: to implement those regulations, it goes back to compliance. Right?
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: we have to make changes to approach. So change can come from pretty much anywhere, anywhere.
Orlando Sequera: Okay?
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: what about
Orlando Sequera: changes in an agile project? What do you think is the main
Orlando Sequera: source for changes.
Orlando Sequera: Their project?
Orlando Sequera: I'm: going to open up the
Orlando Sequera: based on what we have said. So far
Orlando Sequera: requirements
Orlando Sequera: could be. Yeah, it could be the stakeholders right mainly the stakeholders. It could be from anywhere as well.
Orlando Sequera: Exactly. So
Orlando Sequera: you guys are getting it. Stakeholder changes correct
Orlando Sequera: again. I'm gonna post the chat
Orlando Sequera: so great great job it can basically come from anywhere to. So, regardless of the approach it changes can come from anywhere, but it's going to be mainly the stakeholders. It could also be in your regulations.
Orlando Sequera: It it could also be that we miss some requirements, too, so it can.
Orlando Sequera: It can come from anywhere bottom line. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: when when we look at
Orlando Sequera: going back to the project management principles
Orlando Sequera: which one here, do you think i'm gonna give you a few seconds to read.
Orlando Sequera: Which of these project management principles deals with change
Orlando Sequera: what i'm and i'm going to open up the chat.
Orlando Sequera: I see that a lot of you are saying all that is correct, but
Orlando Sequera: some of them it depends on your organization, so there's no right or wrong Answer. Some of this can be applicable. All of them can be applicable, but absolutely absolutely. This is there's no right or run Answer.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: so great great job, i'm gonna post the chat.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: being a diligent, respectful, or caring store.
Orlando Sequera: can be related to change, recognize evaluated response to system interactions definitely navigate complexity. Complexity drives changes
Orlando Sequera: they must related to your behaviors.
Orlando Sequera: Creator.
Orlando Sequera: Theme, environment.
Orlando Sequera: optimize, risk responses. So in essence you can definitely say that all of them can be related to
Orlando Sequera: change. So the point that we're trying to make here is that
Orlando Sequera: change is going to happen. The principles are there to remind you of that.
Orlando Sequera: and we have to be able to address changes in the project.
Orlando Sequera: We also have to be able to monitor.
Orlando Sequera: pay attention to the external business environment. As I mentioned before changes can come from outside the organization.
Orlando Sequera: Eef: this is another reformation. Why do we have
Orlando Sequera: to take into account
Orlando Sequera: external enterprise, environmental factors? Because
Orlando Sequera: things change
Orlando Sequera: in the
Orlando Sequera: business environment that might have an impact in our project and in the form of a change. Okay, so we gotta pay attention to that.
Orlando Sequera: Going back to what I mentioned before. If there is a merge.
Orlando Sequera: a or an acquisition of another organization by our own organization
Orlando Sequera: that
Orlando Sequera: most likely it's gonna drive changes to our project
Orlando Sequera: any
Orlando Sequera: changes in the marketplace and the economic condition in the industry. So we always have to be vigilant, so it's about changes, and Also, it's related to risk right. So we have
Orlando Sequera: that a risk identification, mentality. What if
Orlando Sequera: mentality also paying attention to changes in the environment and let's use the tools. Let's classify those. There are ways that we can classify those different
Orlando Sequera: sources of changes the same way that we use pestle decomposition to classify risks. We can use this from list to classify
Orlando Sequera: those enterprise environmental factors, and make sure that we address them. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: pay attention to your surroundings and even and what's happening even in the environment of the organization that is really important
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to managing changes.
Orlando Sequera: If we are following a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: change is manage using a an integrated control
Orlando Sequera: change control process.
Orlando Sequera: If we're using one more time.
Orlando Sequera: If we're following a predictive approach in our project.
Orlando Sequera: predictive waterfall or traditional.
Orlando Sequera: we manage changes following an integrated change control process. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: what are the controls that we have in that integrated change control process? We have, we start with creating a change request.
Orlando Sequera: We have a change control board that is going to evaluate
Orlando Sequera: those change requests, and it's gonna make a determination. And then we're also keeping track of changes to artifacts and documents. That's how we do it in
Orlando Sequera: predictive. But if we are following an agile approach, it's a little bit different at the end of each iteration. We're going to keep track of
Orlando Sequera: changes. We're gonna reprioritize the per backlog with the product owner. Make sure that that gets done, and that's how we're going to be able to address
Orlando Sequera: to make sure that
Orlando Sequera: the functionality that adds the most value to our customer is always at the top.
Orlando Sequera: And in the demos we're going that we have
Orlando Sequera: during the iteration of Spring Review. At the end of it. Iteration, we're going to be getting feedback, and we're going to be performing scope validation with our
Orlando Sequera: with our customers, with our stakeholders. And we're gonna get feedback from them. And that's also how we manage changes, because in some cases they're going to ask us to make changes to what is to what was done, and that means that that user story has to go back to the per backlog to be addressed
Orlando Sequera: at a later time. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: a it. The key aspect is going to be to work with the product owner.
Orlando Sequera: everyone, the team.
Orlando Sequera: the scrum master team members from master and a project manager. If it's if we're working with a project manager, and of course the part owner should be part of that process of backlog refinement, because remember that in agile the scope is changing. This copy is not fixed as it is in predictive.
Orlando Sequera: but we still have a way to address and manage changes
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: they change control process. This is for predictive.
Orlando Sequera: This is kind of this is the flow chart
Orlando Sequera: that is applicable
Orlando Sequera: to change request. This is the actual representation of the
Orlando Sequera: integrated change control process for predictive.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, everything starts with
Orlando Sequera: creating. We're gonna follow the flow chart. Everything everything starts whenever there is a possible change. I'm going to go back to some of the questions that some of you asked before, what is the budget changes? What if there is a what if
Orlando Sequera: changes in the environment? The materials are the prices are higher. If for construction we have to. That's going to have an impact on our project. This is how we address those changes. That's okay. But everything starts, or let's assume that we have it. There's a major
Orlando Sequera: anything that could change, or there's a new regulation that it's gonna have an impact on the project. How do we address it?
Orlando Sequera: Any change, any possible change to a project?
Orlando Sequera: Remember, this is for predictive. Okay, everything starts with
Orlando Sequera: creating a change request
Orlando Sequera: we have, we have a change, request form.
Orlando Sequera: Then we log that change, request
Orlando Sequera: the change request. If it passes, the filter is basically in this filter. What happens is
Orlando Sequera: the change is gonna get value. There. Is this really a change or not? And where do you think that gets defined? Where do we define
Orlando Sequera: what is a change.
Orlando Sequera: Remember those multiple things that we have to create for multiple areas. I'm gonna open up the chat for a second.
Orlando Sequera: Where do we define that
Orlando Sequera: in in
Orlando Sequera: in the Change management plan, correct in one of the plans that's going to define what is a change gonna be there? That's why we create those plans. The change management plan
Orlando Sequera: Correct.
Orlando Sequera: I'm. Going to post the chat one more time.
Orlando Sequera: So it's defining the plan. That's why we create the plans
Orlando Sequera: to those are the rules of engagement in this case for
Orlando Sequera: changes. Okay, we create the plans. So we know. Oh, what is the change? You can be asking that question at this point, when you are already working on your project, the happening planning, we define, what is it? What is the change that was defined, you know, change management plan. So press is a filter.
Orlando Sequera: If it's accepted, then
Orlando Sequera: next step is our deliverables affected right. We are looking at impact on the project.
Orlando Sequera: and if the answer is no, then usually it gets rejected.
Orlando Sequera: But if that deliverable, the scope is effective. In this case, the answer is. Yes, then we gotta take a look at
Orlando Sequera: the impact. The impact has to be reviewed, and this is usually how it's done.
Orlando Sequera: If it's a minor impact. And this is again also they find what is a minor impact. What is the mother impact? What is the major impact that is defined again in the Change management plan.
Orlando Sequera: but in this prefer the impact statement. If it's minor, it's usually the Pm. That can prefer the impact statement.
Orlando Sequera: If it's a moderate impact.
Orlando Sequera: Then it's gonna be the Pm. And
Orlando Sequera: in in conjunction with the stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: If it's a major impact, you're gonna get
Orlando Sequera: everyone you're gonna get experts subject matter experts. You're gonna get stakeholders. Review the the Pm. Of course it's gonna be in that in that.
Orlando Sequera: in those conversations as well in that impact analysis, if it's, if it's a major impact, the thresholds
Orlando Sequera: that are going to be that are going to determine. What is a minor impact? What is the motor impact. What is the major impact? Again, All of that is defined in the Change Management plan. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: there there is going to be a review
Orlando Sequera: impact and they change control board.
Orlando Sequera: Right here. The Change Controller Board, which is going to be formed by
Orlando Sequera: these stakeholders sub their matter experts.
Orlando Sequera: They're going to review
Orlando Sequera: the impact
Orlando Sequera: analysis
Orlando Sequera: impact on what impact on the budget impact on the schedule impact on the quality impact on any area
Orlando Sequera: of the project. They're going to review that, and they're going to make a determination. They're going to either
Orlando Sequera: approve
Orlando Sequera: the change request.
Orlando Sequera: and if that happens, the change gets authorized.
Orlando Sequera: That means that the change has to be implemented.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, the change has to be built in
Orlando Sequera: our baseline, depending on what the change is. If we're adding scope to the project. Then we have to add that to our
Orlando Sequera: scope, baseline, because when we have to re baseline the project, and if it has also an impact on the budget on the timeline.
Orlando Sequera: We have to
Orlando Sequera: incorporate the change to the broader and to the timeline as well.
Orlando Sequera: and re baseline our project and re baseline, our timeline, our schedule.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, and we have to execute the change and rebalance the project that's what I meant by re-balancing the project that's what we mean by rebalancing the project. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: if the change doesn't get authorized, the Change Control Board says, No.
Orlando Sequera: that's the end of life
Orlando Sequera: for that change. And at that particular moment.
Orlando Sequera: and then they, their whomever send the change request. They're going to get a rejection. Notice
Orlando Sequera: that is, in essence, how the change control process works. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: this is a true statement. I can tell you that for the last.
Orlando Sequera: during my time at the Artemis one program for the last year and a half I was working mainly projects
Orlando Sequera: that we're dealing with a. There were changes to the software
Orlando Sequera: that we were implementing. And I was going
Orlando Sequera: Yeah, at some point in time, a on a weekly basis to change control board, to present, create a change request going through exactly this same process.
Orlando Sequera: And this is how it works in real life. The Change Control Board evaluates and evaluate the impact on the on the project and then impact on the scheduled impact on the budget the impact on the on the scope, and they make the determination, and if it gets approved we have to implement the change.
Orlando Sequera: The teams have to go ahead and implement the changes.
Orlando Sequera: That's that's what I mean by executing the change.
Orlando Sequera: and we have to
Orlando Sequera: change for the re re baseline our projects. So this is a true representation of what happens in real life. That's how we do it in predictive.
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to
Orlando Sequera: change request. We have mainly 4 types. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: we have.
Orlando Sequera: if we are able to determine that when we are monitoring the performance of our project, that our project is not performing according to plan and we are, and the variance is above the threshold. That's why we use on value management right to determine the level of variance.
Orlando Sequera: If we are about the the threshold that is allowed. We have to bring our performance back and track, and for that we need to create a corrective action.
Orlando Sequera: That means that we have it's a change, and it's going to allow us to bring our performance back in track with what we plan for.
Orlando Sequera: hey? That's a corrective action.
Orlando Sequera: But if, on the other hand.
Orlando Sequera: we start seeing by using forecasting tools like Eac, for example, we see that if we keep down we we keep going going down this path we are going to end up
Orlando Sequera: over Budget significantly. We can prevent that accident from happening, for that we can create a preventive action. So we can, for example, adjust, and
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: the rate of spending our Cpi. There is currently 0 point 7, 6.
Orlando Sequera: That that is a horrendous for a project to bring that back on track. So we avoid an accident from happening. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: or
Orlando Sequera: we have another type of the change request, which is a different repair. If we we have a non-conformance that has been identified in the deliberables in many of the deliberals of the project, then we can fix that that will be a different repair or a change
Orlando Sequera: to a document or a change to a baseline change to documentation. That's another type of change request. So we have mainly 4 types of change request
Orlando Sequera: the change Control board
Orlando Sequera: that important entity that is going to review.
Orlando Sequera: They are going to analyze the impact, and they're the ones that are going to be authorizing those changes. They're going to either authorize, approved, or reject those changes.
Orlando Sequera: They
Orlando Sequera: usually deal with
Orlando Sequera: a medium impact on high
Orlando Sequera: to the changes to the project. And they're going.
Orlando Sequera: based on what?
Orlando Sequera: On the impact to the budget based on the impact to the schedule based on the impact to the scope of your project. They're going to make that determination. And who forms usually the Change Control board. You have subject matter experts. You have upper management Sponsors can be part of the the
Orlando Sequera: A change control board as well, and you have a decision-makers basically opera management
Orlando Sequera: experts, decision makers. People have that have enough authority to make an information. Yes, we're gonna implement the change. And they that means that your your budget is gonna change your schedule. It's gonna be extended or reduced or shortened, etc. They can people that have enough of 30 to make the determination, and people that have enough knowledge expertise to understand the nature of the changes.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: We also have
Orlando Sequera: to work with managing
Orlando Sequera: changes for our contracts as well. Our contracts are also gonna be changing. We have to work with our vendors to manage contract changes.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: we also have to work with the organization
Orlando Sequera: A with procurement, with legal department
Orlando Sequera: to also make sure that changes are being tracked. There are 2 ways that we can do that
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to tracking changes for
Orlando Sequera: our contracts.
Orlando Sequera: We can have a specific contract change control system, or we can use the same integrated change control process to to also track contract changes either way. But we have to be
Orlando Sequera: able to track changes for that are that are applied to our contract. That might happen. Okay, it's really important. Remember that these are legally binding agreements that we have with external organizations and with vendors or suppliers or
Orlando Sequera: sellers
Orlando Sequera: that we need to track the changes of those contracts as well.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, that's important. You can do it independently, or you can use the same integrated change control system that you have in place to track other changes for your project
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to contract changes. What we really mean is
Orlando Sequera: multiple types of changes. We have administrative changes.
Orlando Sequera: These are these are not.
Orlando Sequera: is basically how the administration of the contract is done.
Orlando Sequera: Do you might have contract modification, Those those could be substantial changes, and they might need to be reviewed by the legal department.
Orlando Sequera: for example, maybe supplemental agreements.
Orlando Sequera: It might be an additional agreement and a and a random to the contract a that can be probably negotiated separately. So that's another type of change, and we get established who has the authority to approve these changes? Who need to be? Who needs to be involved in this process.
Orlando Sequera: In these processes it's usually procurement and legal department. They have to be part of that process. You might have constructive changes changes made by the buyer through action or inaction, or they may termination of the contract. This is a. When the vendor default or or buyers needs
Orlando Sequera: changes. Okay, multiple changes
Orlando Sequera: that can come into play when it comes to contracts.
Orlando Sequera: A few legal concepts that are important to at least have an idea. Remember that we're working with the experts in this field with a legal department, right?
Orlando Sequera: A project management. Neither project management nor the program from Institute expects that you are that you need to be a legal expert in order to be a a project manager. That's not the case. But we need to have
Orlando Sequera: some level of understanding of some
Orlando Sequera: common terminology that is applied in this contract, for example, a warranty. We need to know that it One of warrant is promise, whether it's a place it or implied that the good or services are going to meet a pretty depending standard waiver, which is giving away. It's a legal provision in which
Orlando Sequera: one party they for free to claim without the other party becoming liable. We gotta be careful with those we have to be careful with those waivers. You might inadvertently
Orlando Sequera: execute a waiver, and that that's that's not an excuse.
Orlando Sequera: So that's why we work with our
Orlando Sequera: legal experts that can help us to avoid those situations. A breach of contract. That's another one failure to meet some obligations in the contract, Remember, obligations are for the seller, and also for the buyer, and there's another
Orlando Sequera: legal terminology, legal term season. This is letter. This is like this is a letter that is sent to individuals or businesses to ask them to stop
Orlando Sequera: illegal activities. Otherwise legal action is going to be taken against them.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so just to know what it is.
Orlando Sequera: we also have
Orlando Sequera: something important. When we're working with
Orlando Sequera: project we with contracts.
Orlando Sequera: we might have this agreements. This can happen
Orlando Sequera: in any project we might have these agreements
Orlando Sequera: between the behind organization, you and
Orlando Sequera: the and a vendor, we might have a disagreement they might consider. No, we fulfill our obligation and do my feel that
Orlando Sequera: it's not the case that happens all the time. So there is a process that is called
Orlando Sequera: Claims administration that is designed to assist in settling
Orlando Sequera: contract disputes. Disputes might happen.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: This covers the processing, educating, deciding any community, and communicating any claims that are made against the contract.
Orlando Sequera: they can be the result of changes that are being contested. The disagreement could be the result of the 2 parties being unable to agree on the compensation to cover
Orlando Sequera: the charge, and if they can come they cannot come to an agreement, they can use what is called an alternative dispute resolution that is going to be specified in the contract itself and ideally
Orlando Sequera: settlement.
Orlando Sequera: if they
Orlando Sequera: so through negotiation is the preferred way rather than going than going through litigation. One thing that i'm going to point out for the first time today, and we're going to revisit that when we get to
Orlando Sequera: procurement is that
Orlando Sequera: Amy
Orlando Sequera: claims in your project you have to close all your procurements, all your procurements. Let's assume for a minute that your there is a contract with supplier a.
Orlando Sequera: and there is a dispute, and you went through this process of escalation negotiation didn't work. They still feel that they met the obligation, and you feel that they didn't there's a dispute. We went through
Orlando Sequera: a negotiation process that didn't work. We escalated that to an alternative dispute resolution with a mediator that didn't work. So the dispute is still there. But we have to close the procurement always for projects.
Orlando Sequera: I'm going to ask you this question.
Orlando Sequera: Can you? And I'm gonna open up the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Can you close?
Orlando Sequera: This dispute has to go to litigation?
Orlando Sequera: Unfortunately, there's no other chance Can I close that procurement in my project, or do I have to keep it open?
Orlando Sequera: Can I close that procurement in my project, and the chat is.
Orlando Sequera: the chat is open.
Orlando Sequera: Okay? I'm gonna pause the chat for a second.
Orlando Sequera: Most of you are saying, Leave it open, but
Orlando Sequera: i'm not familiar with other countries, but at least here in the States.
Orlando Sequera: Well, maybe in some other countries, but I think it's pretty much the same. I don't know how it is in your country. But whenever we go to litigation that can take years
Orlando Sequera: that can take years
Orlando Sequera: in litigation, people can. This is taken to a court.
Orlando Sequera: and it can be escalated to a different court, and it can take years before a resolution is made our project. Can we have to close our project. So the sure answer is
Orlando Sequera: the way we're gonna. If that happens in your project, that might very well be a question in your exam. If you have a dispute
Orlando Sequera: with a vendor.
Orlando Sequera: and you went through all the steps of
Orlando Sequera: the dispute. Resolution process, including negotiation, was impossible. Settlement was impossible.
Orlando Sequera: You went through an alternative dispute resolution that was impossible. Can I close that procurement? The answer is, yes, the way it's done is you're going to, and this is what will happen in real life
Orlando Sequera: if the last resort which is litigation is the only option left.
Orlando Sequera: That's what you need to document in your procurement documentation to your project, and then it gets offloaded to the legal department. You're not the one that is going to go to litigation. Remember, we're not lawyers, right?
Orlando Sequera: So the legal department of your organization. They are the ones that are going to handle that open
Orlando Sequera: legal item, not you. So you document that this there is a dispute
Orlando Sequera: that we try. We followed all the escalation process
Orlando Sequera: to close this procuring work.
Orlando Sequera: They still it. The the only option left is litigation. That's what you're going to document in the procurement, and that's how you're going to close that procurement. But you always always please remember that for the exam always close procurements always even in that situation. Legally, it's going to take care of it, and that's what they do. That's their job.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So please remember that for
Orlando Sequera: the exam as well.
Orlando Sequera: We always close procurements, and another type of question. When it comes to changes we always create a change request. This is another type of a
Orlando Sequera: exam question that they can come at you.
Orlando Sequera: You are working in Project Xyc. At
Orlando Sequera: this particular organization, and
Orlando Sequera: all of this sudden
the CEO of the organization came down and asked: you.
Orlando Sequera: Orlando, we have to implement this change. We do not have time
Orlando Sequera: to create a change request. This is a very important change. We have to a implement, this change a: what do you do in that situation? I'm gonna ask you that question. What? I'm gonna open up the chat. What do you do in that situation? The CEO of the organization came down. They ask you
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: ornando, you don't, we don't have time for for this integrate change controlled Mambo Jumbo. We have to implement this change right now. What do you do in that situation?
Oh.
Orlando Sequera: exactly
Orlando Sequera: so. The good answer is going to be.
Orlando Sequera: We have to follow this process at all time. I'm. Gonna post the chat. I see that many of you are.
Orlando Sequera: Many of you are getting me correct. So what you do in this situation there's going to be one of the possible answers that is going to tell you. Well.
Orlando Sequera: you we have to. We're several leaders, right? We're they promised. We're gonna keep our jobs. So we wanna we we have to provide the awareness to our stakeholders. Mr. Or Miss the CEO.
Orlando Sequera: We have to understand the impact
Orlando Sequera: of that change to the project. We can just go ahead and implement the change. We need to understand
Orlando Sequera: the impact on the scope
Orlando Sequera: and the impact on the budget and the impact on the schedule of that change. Otherwise we're going to be adding risk to our project. That is, along those lines that's going to be the right answer. So bottom line is, we always follow the change control process, and that is for
Orlando Sequera: a a predictive approach. That is right. So we're following a break, the approach Under every single circumstance we follow the change control process. They are going to try to test you. They're going to try to trick you on that
Orlando Sequera: always for the change control process
Orlando Sequera: a update. We also have to.
Orlando Sequera: As these updates changes the as these changes are are going to start costing updates, we also need to update our project management plan a: we might need to update our scope, our timelines, our work packages in our Wbs and team member assignments
Orlando Sequera: it for agile teams. It's a little bit different.
Orlando Sequera: They might have
Orlando Sequera: user stories that are at the bottom of the
Orlando Sequera: for the backlock. Those might be
Orlando Sequera: dropped
Orlando Sequera: to make room for a for these changes. So that happens all the time. Remember, of the and agile. The scope is an influence.
Orlando Sequera: and this is what we have covered. So far
Orlando Sequera: we have been able to cover a how to
Orlando Sequera: evaluating address external business environment to changes for impact on scope.
Orlando Sequera: and we also cover how to manage project changes.
Orlando Sequera: All right. So we have come to the end of
Orlando Sequera: Lesson 5,
Orlando Sequera: and we're going to start with Lesson 6.
Orlando Sequera: But before we do that we're gonna take a break, and when we come back. We're going to continue with this topic. So we're gonna take our last 10 min break and we'll be back in 10 min.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to continue with the last lesson for our project.
Orlando Sequera: Now
Orlando Sequera: we're going to talk about.
Orlando Sequera: close the project
Orlando Sequera: or face. We're gonna talk about what happens when you close the product or face.
Orlando Sequera: And we're gonna be addressing that as
Orlando Sequera: the last lesson for our content today.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes
Orlando Sequera: 2
Orlando Sequera: for the closure or face closure.
Orlando Sequera: we're going to learn about the reasons and activities that need to occur.
Orlando Sequera: A. Related to the closure of a face of a project
Orlando Sequera: you we can either close a face, or we can either close a project.
Orlando Sequera: We have to be able to explain the benefits that we gain from that project or face, and how they were managed, and also
Orlando Sequera: go over the reasons for knowledge transfer, remember lessons learned, and how they relate to the closure of your
Orlando Sequera: project or face.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to start with just that we're going to go over
Orlando Sequera: project or face closure.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: let me start by saying that every single project needs to be closed. Everything. Every single project is going to go through a closure face.
Orlando Sequera: Remember what we said before a project this
Orlando Sequera: we set this on day one. That's the basic definition of a project. A project is a temporary endeavor.
Orlando Sequera: That's the textbook definition. Temporary means. It has a definite beginning.
Orlando Sequera: and he has a definite end. They are not opening the
Orlando Sequera: why projects or faces close.
Orlando Sequera: it can be.
Orlando Sequera: and and I hope that in most cases
Orlando Sequera: this is what happens to your to your projects, that your stakeholders accept your deliverables.
Orlando Sequera: We were building that one story home. We completed the home we compared the house
Orlando Sequera: building a one-story house. We completed the house
Orlando Sequera: with the requirements based on the
Orlando Sequera: what was agreed upon, the scope. That was a great problem with a customer, and we follow that acceptance criteria that was set at the beginning of the project, and we were able to deliver just that, and we follow an integrated approach with the project management plan. Of course, this acceptance criteria was
Orlando Sequera: maybe was modified throughout the life cycle of the project.
Orlando Sequera: In
Orlando Sequera: we use a requirements, traceability matrix to track the evolution of the changes of those requirements. Perhaps when we start originally the
Orlando Sequera: the roof, what they.
Orlando Sequera: the customers wanted to have a metal roof on the house, but they change
Orlando Sequera: the requirement to have Spanish style or shingles in the roof.
Orlando Sequera: So we got to keep track of those changes. We do that with the requirements traceably matrix, because right now we're showing the deliverables
Orlando Sequera: here, Mr. Customer or Mrs. Customer, we built the house with
Orlando Sequera: with a with with Spanish dial, because
Orlando Sequera: that was your requirement, and we have it documented here in the requirements forxibility, matrix, and we have this sign off your sign of your approval to implement that change. So that's how it gets done. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Or if we're following an agile approach, it's a little bit different, Si similar in a way. But we use
Orlando Sequera: the definition of done that covers
Orlando Sequera: the acceptance criteria, we not only go recording by requirement, we have a definition of done that is applicable to all the features that we are developing.
Orlando Sequera: and that's how the final acceptance occurs. We do that every iteration multiple times we do the same. But instead of doing it at the end of the project. When the house is built. We're doing this every 2 weeks, every 3 weeks, every 4 weeks.
Orlando Sequera: But that's how that's how we do it. Imagine what what changes is the frequency right? Remember, Remember that we're providing
Orlando Sequera: we're building an increment we're providing portions of functionality. One iteration at a time.
Orlando Sequera: But final acceptance is gonna occur prior to product release.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: then.
Orlando Sequera: ideally, that's how you closed your projects when you completed all this code that was like read upon, put
Orlando Sequera: in the event of
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: major changes that make
Orlando Sequera: your project no longer feasible. For example, your project was to
Orlando Sequera: develop a new
Orlando Sequera: applicant tracking system ats for your organization. Not all. But there was a change
Orlando Sequera: in the environment, and your organization was acquired by a different organization. So. If that's the case.
Orlando Sequera: then
Orlando Sequera: chances are that the current organization
Orlando Sequera: has already an Ats, and they don't need a new applicant tracking system. So your your pro is no longer feasible.
Orlando Sequera: So that happens all the time, or simply that the organization run out of money. They don't we. We don't have any more money for for that project I mean more due to changes due to budget constraints in the organization, etc. So in that case we also
Orlando Sequera: close the project. We have to document the reasons why what happened
Orlando Sequera: and we have to document it, and we have to formally close the project. Okay, so those are the 2 ways that we can close a project or face, either by complete satisfaction.
Orlando Sequera: satisfactorily completing the requirements, delivering the requirements as per the scope. There was a greater problem with the customer
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: the pro team was able to deliver what they're expecting, or by termination like. In this case, something a major change that makes the project project no longer feasible. No longer the cyber. There's no more money, or they M. There are major risks
Orlando Sequera: that make the successful completion impossible. That happens also in many, many cases. So. But we still have to document the actual reasons, and we have. That's how we close that project or face. And what do I mean by
Orlando Sequera: closing
Orlando Sequera: a project or face activities we have. If we completed all this code, we have to get formal acceptance, sign off of the deliverables
Orlando Sequera: by the customer.
Orlando Sequera: We have to also transition this deliverables to the customer.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: we have to notify our organization functions, update any
Orlando Sequera: organizational process assets prepare a final report for a project, and this is for a predictive. Mainly.
Orlando Sequera: we have to prepare final report.
Orlando Sequera: We have to complete, conclude any external obligations, including legal, re regulatory, contractual, or transfer of of liability. And this is where those procurement
Orlando Sequera: that are
Orlando Sequera: a associated with the project. We also have to close those procurements in the event of that scenario that I mentioned before, we have a dispute with a vendor.
Orlando Sequera: They we went through the escalation process. We had. We tried to have negotiation and come up with a settlement that was impossible. We exhausted every single resource.
Orlando Sequera: Even they'll turn an alternative to resolution. We went through mediation, and they still contest a They still have a dispute. They there, there's no other option. Then.
Orlando Sequera: going through litigation, we have to document that procurement that it went. It is going to go to
Orlando Sequera: with all the history that I just mentioned. We, as we we went through all the steps in the escalation process that didn't work
Orlando Sequera: this has to be. This is going to be handled by the legal department of our organization. That's how we close that procurement. We cannot have any procurement activities open before we can close the project. That is really important to keep in mind. So Don't, let them trick you. With that we always close procurements.
Orlando Sequera: We always close projects, but we have to close our procurements before we can close our project. So in that case the legal department is gonna go. It's gonna go and and and work with that dispute. They're the ones that are gonna go to court, and they're the ones that are gonna take care of that dispute. It's offloaded
Orlando Sequera: from your project. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Because, as you know, that can take years.
Orlando Sequera: any one that has gone through litigation, know exactly what i'm talking about. It can take years for that process to
Orlando Sequera: to come up with a resolution, and you don't have years in your project, most most likely. So that's what happens. You close it that way, you document it.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: department work.
Orlando Sequera: We have to archive project information. We also have to release our resources and update their skill set to if they went for training, and they got certifications, and they also improve their skill set that has to be documented. That's also part of the Close
Orlando Sequera: or Project Face. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: a little bit more about the final report. This is a summer report and performance. How we did when it comes to scope scheduled quality and cost and risks.
Orlando Sequera: And another important aspect of
Orlando Sequera: closure is also lessons learned. You gotta make sure that your lessons learn are up to date, that your lessons to register is finalized and makes its way to the lessons repository of the Inf. Of the organization that is important.
Orlando Sequera: for
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to transitions and handovers.
Orlando Sequera: this is when we're deploying to
Orlando Sequera: a to production, to a live environment.
Orlando Sequera: if it's, if it's a if we're following a predictive approach, the deliverables are going to be handed to the customer, so the house is delivered to the customer.
Orlando Sequera: The one story house that we built.
Orlando Sequera: and or if it's an agent approach.
Orlando Sequera: we can do partial deliveries at the end of each iteration.
Orlando Sequera: Technically, we can deliver that functionality that we built in our iterations
Orlando Sequera: into.
Orlando Sequera: We can deliver that to production, their production ready, those functionalities. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: we do partial deliveries in
Orlando Sequera: agile. And then, if we're following the hybrid approach.
Orlando Sequera: we can tailor the solution that delivers value, most likely in an incremental way, as we produce
Orlando Sequera: functionality that's value. We follow a very similar approach
Orlando Sequera: that we follow in agile. We can release that
Orlando Sequera: into production, so our customers can start benefiting from that functionality
Orlando Sequera: the add value.
Orlando Sequera: Keep in mind. That
Orlando Sequera: is, some organizations. They have what is called a transition plan or a rollout plan. That is not a component of your overall project management plan.
Orlando Sequera: Another aspect that is taken into account when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: hand over readiness is that we gotta make sure that
Orlando Sequera: and organizations are paying attention more and more to this. That organization.
Orlando Sequera: I'm: sorry. Your customers, your stakeholders, are ready to receive
Orlando Sequera: whatever it is that we build with a project. Okay, whether it is a product, a service, or a result, so they can.
Orlando Sequera: So we can increase the chances of them being successful with the new product service. So so they are. But that means that we have to work with training for getting them ready, getting them
Orlando Sequera: train getting them up to speed on what they're gonna get, and also providing all the documentation that they need. So this process of transition and hand over readiness is as move as possible. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: remember that.
Orlando Sequera: Take a resistance to change happens, so we try to address that as much as possible, and that means you have to have some awareness and provide the awareness of the benefits, the benefits, realization, plan.
Orlando Sequera: benefits, management, plan for the project and make sure that he gets used that is, tied up to the value of the project. So make sure that you take into account that your
Orlando Sequera: users are ready. They have the training and the documentation needed. Also. The business is ready to adopt the new product service. A result Your project team is ready to transition, because once they transition is
Orlando Sequera: off, law is is
Orlando Sequera: off their plates. If they're no longer they're no longer the ones that are gonna be working on that particular product service. So they're gonna have support staff that are gonna be providing the support, and they also might need to be trained. They also might need to be
Orlando Sequera: a provided with specific documentation. So we gotta take that into account. That's also part of project closure, and it is important we have to think about the future right, and set our customers
Orlando Sequera: for success. Once they a take over
Orlando Sequera: and start using the product service so that we created with our project
Orlando Sequera: some of those
Orlando Sequera: transition and hand over activities
Orlando Sequera: A:
Orlando Sequera: They
Orlando Sequera: are gonna provide end user awareness. They're gonna help you to increase the level of end user awareness. They're also gonna help you to increase the probability of successful adoption and also increase the chances of benefits. Realization
Orlando Sequera: it. As I mentioned before, some of the some of the important aspects of the transition are training
Orlando Sequera: training your users to make the best use of
Orlando Sequera: the new product service over. So whatever it is that you created with your project documentation provided documentation. This is something that a
Orlando Sequera: some team members have a hard time understanding. It's not just the functionality. We also got to provide the documentation, so there are people that are going to be working with this.
Orlando Sequera: a function that we created
Orlando Sequera: communication between the product team and the organization. And then
Orlando Sequera: one thing that happens in in in many organizations is that you have to also define.
Orlando Sequera: I call it
Orlando Sequera: quote unquote warranty period. It is what is properly known as post implementation support, which is going to be done by the team. So
Orlando Sequera: I've seen that in some organizations this can be one week or 2 weeks after deployment in which the actual project team provides a support port.
Orlando Sequera: After that it's going to be the help desk or whatever support staff a department they have in place.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so that has to be defined as part of transition.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to transition, and when it comes to training the documentation, transition readiness, remember that we have
Orlando Sequera: some.
Orlando Sequera: Why do we have? Do maybe wondering Why can we just send them the documentation? Read the document, and that's it they're going to be. They're going to be ready
Orlando Sequera: because we have 2 types of knowledge. We have explicit knowledge that can be in a document. But what about tacit knowledge?
Orlando Sequera: Can we easily document. I'm gonna open. I'm gonna unpo the chat for a second. That's it. Knowledge is it? Is. Is it easy for you to articulate tastic knowledge?
Orlando Sequera: Please please feel free to use a chat. No right kind of hard to document how to
Orlando Sequera: learn how to play
Orlando Sequera: the guitar, for example, or it comes with experience exactly
Orlando Sequera: exactly
Orlando Sequera: correct.
Orlando Sequera: So i'm going to post the chat
Orlando Sequera: correct. That's why
Orlando Sequera: we have to use a combination. It's not just
Orlando Sequera: preparing a documentation. That's part of it.
Orlando Sequera: but we also have to work with our provide the training, and this has to be tailored to specific a situation with your project. We have to tailor, that
Orlando Sequera: to your specifics
Orlando Sequera: in your specific organization
Orlando Sequera: and your your specific. But
okay.
Orlando Sequera: also.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to paying and closing contracts.
Orlando Sequera: the payment at the payment
Orlando Sequera: payment schedule is going to be defined in the contract
Orlando Sequera: always. And this is something that you as the project manager, do you gotta be on top of this. Not You're working with the procurement legal departments, right? But it is your project You're just toward that. You have to watch this closely.
Orlando Sequera: You have to make sure
Orlando Sequera: that the suppliers and vendors are paid
Orlando Sequera: as per the contract terms.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, it's your project you have you? You can.
Orlando Sequera: You have to make sure that that gets done. Okay, when
Orlando Sequera: and usually the way we do it. As we said before, we to make it easy for everyone, for the vendor and for the project team and for us to Pm. We tie this payments. One best practice is to tie this payments to milestone significant events in your project. So
Orlando Sequera: pay the suppliers always in accordance with contract terms.
Orlando Sequera: Do not delay payments
Orlando Sequera: unless
Orlando Sequera: that's based on
Orlando Sequera: the project closes unless that's what specified in the contract. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: pay your vendors as per the comfort
Orlando Sequera: period.
Orlando Sequera: All right
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: finalizing the contracts. Going again over
Orlando Sequera: what we mentioned before a.
Orlando Sequera: You have to archive contract documentation.
Orlando Sequera: The closure of the contract has to be done whenever the work is completed. In the event. Again, i'm going to reiterate that one more time. In the event of
Orlando Sequera: a contract being disputed by the vendor
Orlando Sequera: and and your organization, they buy an organization. You have to
Orlando Sequera: go through the escalation process.
Orlando Sequera: You try to settle
Orlando Sequera: that didn't work for negotiation? You tried to use alternate
Orlando Sequera: alternate dispute resolution, using a mediator, for example, that doesn't work, then last resort.
Orlando Sequera: You have to document this contract
Orlando Sequera: and in this procurement activity, and say that this will be handled by the legal department because we exhausted all the options available. And this is how we're going to close and finalize this contract. Legal department will take care of that litigation, not you. That's how you close your procurement. That's how you close this contract in your
Orlando Sequera: specific
Orlando Sequera: project. Okay? And also
Orlando Sequera: you have to document all this information so you can
Orlando Sequera: then
Orlando Sequera: keep track of
Orlando Sequera: like possible lessons from
Orlando Sequera: that will benefit you in the future.
Orlando Sequera: Also.
Orlando Sequera: what have we covered so far?
Orlando Sequera: We talked about
Orlando Sequera: negotiating project agreement.
Orlando Sequera: and we also talked about
Orlando Sequera: a planning match, project, face or closure for transitions. We talked about transition readiness.
Orlando Sequera: and we now understand that we have to close every single aspect of a project documented Archive. It
Orlando Sequera: it so it's ready for. And and also the lessons learned are documented and ready for future use. That is really important.
Orlando Sequera: Now we're gonna talk about benefits. Realization. This is important. Remember what we said on day one
Orlando Sequera: we do projects.
Orlando Sequera: Project: Success is tied up to adding value and adding value
Orlando Sequera: means benefits, realization.
Orlando Sequera: That's why organizations are investing money and time and resources
Orlando Sequera: in their in their projects.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: we know now that we have
Orlando Sequera: with the adaptives. If we, if we're following an agile approach, we can deliver increment incremental value
Orlando Sequera: as soon as possible.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: for a predicted project is that's not the case, it may be years before a predicted project closes for benefits
Orlando Sequera: to be realized and value delivery. It may take a longer time. It all depends on the work, the type of project and the desire outcomes. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So benefits are going are going to accrue a averse stages depending on the project Life cycles use with agile. It's going to be a
Orlando Sequera: pretty much it right away. That's the goal with Agro. It's also the nature of the work and the intended outcomes. So
Orlando Sequera: a if we're following another approach to deliver a software
Orlando Sequera: for the accounting department, we can the values deliver early. We can start delivering functionality. One iteration at a time.
Orlando Sequera: but in some other cases
Orlando Sequera: a other type of projects. They might take years. They might take months. So before we can start seeing the benefits. Okay. So we have
Orlando Sequera: early benefits, realization.
Orlando Sequera: We following a medal approach or adaptive. We have long term benefits realization. If we are a using a different approach, usually with
Orlando Sequera: with some.
Orlando Sequera: They've projects, not all of them. It's some of them. It's. It depends on the specific situation
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: the benefits, transition. And so statement, there's some responsibilities. If we're following that
Orlando Sequera: a a predictive approach, any improvement or modification to be to the labor benefits is a new project
Orlando Sequera: we'll follow in the management. Approach. It's a little bit different. Any improvements of modifications
Orlando Sequera: to the labor benefits are proposed as work
Orlando Sequera: next future iteration and their place on we prioritize in the backlog. Why is that? Because the scope is not fixed? This cope is an influx.
Orlando Sequera: and if it's a hybrid approach. Organizations are going to tailor solutions for benefits, realization and sustainment. Okay. An example will be devops, development operations
Orlando Sequera: or hyper-
Orlando Sequera: benefits. Transition and sustainment.
Orlando Sequera: We have
Orlando Sequera: a depending on the approach.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: The project team. They deliver benefits to the customer organization.
Orlando Sequera: the customer. If we're following a predictive approach, they make sure that there's continued generation of improvement.
Orlando Sequera: and they also capture additional customer inputs
Orlando Sequera: from the perspective. The product owner, project manager. If we're using a natural or a hybrid approach.
Orlando Sequera: We work with customers it to identify the work that is required
Orlando Sequera: based on what adds the most value to them. For the desire improvements
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: They provide plan performance data.
Orlando Sequera: team
Orlando Sequera: work with a business owner to suggest benefits, realization for metrics.
Orlando Sequera: And again.
Orlando Sequera: really.
Orlando Sequera: the approach is a little bit different. But with the
Orlando Sequera: actual a pro. If we're following a module approach, or even a hybrid approach
Orlando Sequera: it's more about
Orlando Sequera: what at the most value. That's what's going to be done first. We use metrics to measure the performance, but
Orlando Sequera: add a added value is gonna happen in a shorter term compared to a predictive approach. We're gonna take other factors into account, and we have to update our different plans, update our different artifacts.
Orlando Sequera: It changes are gonna have ripple effects in multiple areas of our project as we have been able to learn, and that also goes with benefits, transition, and sustainment. So it's
Orlando Sequera: the same principle. But in this case we're talking specifically about
Orlando Sequera: benefits, transition, and sustainment.
Orlando Sequera: We have, as we have mentioned before, a benefits management plan.
Orlando Sequera: This is a document that is developed
Orlando Sequera: by the organization to define
Orlando Sequera: the potential benefits
Orlando Sequera: from the project effort. This is created. Even before the project starts, we start working on the project. This is a major input to authorize in the project. And I'm going to open up the chat. What is the artifact that
Orlando Sequera: formally authorizes the project? The existence of the project?
Orlando Sequera: Please feel free to use the chat.
Orlando Sequera: the project charter. It's the product charter. So this is created before the product. Charter is screen. This is an input to the product. Charter Pilot.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, I'm going to post the chat.
Orlando Sequera: The benefits mentioned plan. This is going to examine the request of benefits, including tangible and intangible business value is that that will be realized from the project.
Orlando Sequera: The term is the timeframe for short and long term benefits
Orlando Sequera: realization.
Orlando Sequera: and it also is going to identify a base, a benefits owner that is responsible for achieving the benefits, including metrics, needs to be measured and who is going to measure those results.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: in the plan, we have to determine whether we have any pro remaining project risk that could prevent our project
Orlando Sequera: from benefit achievement.
Orlando Sequera: And when key stakeholders are
Orlando Sequera: working, and then you find these are project benefits at this point.
Orlando Sequera: Provide them with suggestions on how the benefits should be measured.
Orlando Sequera: the benefits owner.
Orlando Sequera: This is
Orlando Sequera: an individual that is gonna be working with either the project manager or the team lead. If we're following a manual approach during the project to make sure that the benefits are managed as they are delivered.
Orlando Sequera: They're going to help in that transition
Orlando Sequera: at the end of the project
Orlando Sequera: to
Orlando Sequera: A, when
Orlando Sequera: it
Orlando Sequera: the request of benefits are transferred to the receiving organization. They are gonna make sure that the metrics measurement metrics are in place, and they're established and followed, and they report
Orlando Sequera: to operate management
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: realize results of the
Orlando Sequera: benefits that were delivered
Orlando Sequera: in a predictive approach. Benefits Owner may be a business analyst. It could be a sponsor. It could be an operations manager
Orlando Sequera: in Agile is usually the product owner.
Orlando Sequera: They're responsible for making sure that the project provides benefits to the organization. You want to be wondering why is the product owner? Because, remember, we are constantly reprioritizing the product owner is in charge of reprioritizing the product backlog to add
Orlando Sequera: the most value possible to
Orlando Sequera: the business by that reproduction based on what based on what adds the most value. That's why it's the product owner.
Orlando Sequera: We also have to be able to verify this benefits realization.
Orlando Sequera: We have to use the chosen metrics.
Orlando Sequera: The per owner has to report on progress for each tangible benefits
Orlando Sequera: for intangible benefits.
Orlando Sequera: Subjective
Orlando Sequera: qualitative determination may be the most appropriate way we have to report on this
Orlando Sequera: tangible benefits. Progress progress towards a
Orlando Sequera: those benefits we met
Orlando Sequera: any benefits at risk of not being realized as planned, that has to be reported as well. Any negative impact on strategic objectives
Orlando Sequera: and potential ending of the project team support
Orlando Sequera: it. You might wonder, in a predictive project once the transition is complete, who's responsible for very fine? The benefits are realized. So after we deliver our product service, a result. If we're following a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: then there is gonna be someone in the organization a benefits manager. That is usually that's the the individual that or benefits owner that is, gonna make sure that it's responsible to make sure to measure whether the benefits were realized or not.
Orlando Sequera: All right. So what have we cover? We cover benefits we cover that we have to evaluate and deliver project benefits, some value that is important. That's the main goal of the project
Orlando Sequera: project benefits
Orlando Sequera: and add value to our customers.
Orlando Sequera: Also
Orlando Sequera: we have.
Orlando Sequera: i'm, a.
Orlando Sequera: That is important in any project that is part of closing which is knowledge transfer. This has to do with lessons learned. This is super important.
Orlando Sequera: When we are archiving our project documentation, we hold. We gotta make sure that one of those artifacts the less of a register is
Orlando Sequera: up to date
Orlando Sequera: is reviewed and also up to date, and we are making sure that we are that we have been able to finalize that.
Orlando Sequera: Listen, sort of register, because remember, this is kind of If we're following
Orlando Sequera: a predictive approach. The lessons from register is going to make its way to a larger repository that we call the lessons learned repository, that is, for the entire organization. Every single project is going to send. It's lessons or register it's individual. Let's sort of register to this
Orlando Sequera: large repository that we call, let's just run repository, and whenever we whenever we start a new project.
Orlando Sequera: so we don't have to reinvent the wheel. We would like to learn. Go over the list of learn of similar projects, we should start by reviewing those lessons to learn. That is why we call that an opa. We have to review lessons from from previous project, but we also have to help
Orlando Sequera: a to make that
Orlando Sequera: repository better over time. That's how we do it, what we are able to learn in our own projects that has to make its way to that repository. That's part of knowledge, Management a. And we do that in both predictive and active
Orlando Sequera: a approaches, if we do it
Orlando Sequera: to.
Orlando Sequera: if if we do it, following
Orlando Sequera: a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: we that's that's how we do it finalize. The less registered makes its way to the less repository. But if we
Orlando Sequera: are following an adaptive approach, we conduct retrospectives, and what do we go over? Retrospective. We go over. Let us learn that we can apply in the very next iteration.
Orlando Sequera: So we do it, regardless of the approach.
Orlando Sequera: More and more organizations are
Orlando Sequera: a paying attention to lessons. Learn a knowledge transfer because it translates to a improve efficiencies when it comes to cost when it comes to schedule, when it comes to working with vendors, etc. So they don't have to reinvent the wheel.
Orlando Sequera: More and more and more important is given to knowledge. Transfer
Orlando Sequera: specifically when we.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to retrospective
Orlando Sequera: in agile. We do it at the end of each iteration, and teams go over. What? When? Well, what, when run, what can be improved, and they can help us to improve
Orlando Sequera: over time, so we do it multiple times in agile
Orlando Sequera: and the hybrid as well. But if we're following an a a predictive approach, we can do that at the very end of the project and have lessons. Learn retrospective meeting to go over what? What? We're willing the project to gonna give, give, give the chance to everyone to participate, document that finalize
Orlando Sequera: the documentation in your less to sort of register and send that to the lessons repository and share the results with the sponsor and other stakeholders. So that's also a something important.
Orlando Sequera: But we have to
Orlando Sequera: take the time. Remember that for the exam. Let's learn super important. We have to be able to
Orlando Sequera: document them because they take into account multiple aspects of the project they cover scope, they cover schedule risk. We can learn lessons from any area of our project vendor relationships, artifacts.
Orlando Sequera: etc.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Also.
Orlando Sequera: as I mentioned before, these lessons run are going to be consolidated and our individual lesson
Orlando Sequera: register. It's gonna make its way to a larger container that we call.
Orlando Sequera: Let's just learn repository. So all of the entire organization. Any other projects that would like to that might benefit from our lessons around can actually go ahead and do it.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, it's a large database. Think of a database.
Orlando Sequera: Also. One thing that we prepare
Orlando Sequera: in that with our projects is
Orlando Sequera: a final report.
Orlando Sequera: This is something important that we have to prepare for any project. He has the description of the project, including the Liberals of milestones. We have scope, objectives.
Orlando Sequera: document.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to documents of evaluation, criteria, and give evidence
Orlando Sequera: and of completion. Criteria
Orlando Sequera: quality objectives cost objective validation, information, schedule objectives, benefits, realization, and any risks or issues that were encountered. This can help
Orlando Sequera: the organization in the future. Other projects, even you as the pro, the the Pm. Of a similar project in the future. So this is important, and this is another a. This is part of the opa that we are in this case generating with our project.
Orlando Sequera: All right, so
Orlando Sequera: we have covered a the importance of knowledge. Transfer lessons, learn important, regardless of the approach we have to document that.
Orlando Sequera: and we have come
Orlando Sequera: to the end of the content.
Orlando Sequera: That is the end of the content. And now
Orlando Sequera: we still have
Orlando Sequera: a few minutes. You're not, do we? We? We're not ready to to to let you go. We still have a few minutes. What i'm going to do is
Orlando Sequera: I'm going to review the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: answer
Orlando Sequera: your questions, and I would like to take a few minutes also to go over the actual Pmp. Exam. I would like to give you my final take my final exam strategy and tips for the Pmp. Exam. So all of you can be successful with the exam. So i'm gonna start
Orlando Sequera: a please vote on your question on the questions, and i'm going to start
Orlando Sequera: answering the questions. Well, before that, please make sure that you fill out the survey. This is the last day.
Orlando Sequera: Let us know what you liked about the class fill out the survey. We have been posting the link to the survey, and
Orlando Sequera: but so what's room for improvement? So
Orlando Sequera: really value your feedback.
Orlando Sequera: I'm gonna go ahead, and I'm.
Orlando Sequera: And start working on
Orlando Sequera: answering the questions.
Orlando Sequera: There's a question in the Q. A. Sometimes the authorization of the payment is at the end.
Orlando Sequera: What payment terms could be 90 days or 120 days. That's gonna be specified in the contract you pay them when you need to pay them, when, as per the contract, that's the whole point here. If it's 90 days, you pay 90 days, if it's 120 days, you pay in 120 days. So
Orlando Sequera: A. But if there is a dispute, what I was talking about was a dispute that's different. Okay. But you always pay
Orlando Sequera: based on the payment terms that are specified in the contract.
Orlando Sequera: You do not wait at the end of the project.
Orlando Sequera: What formal documentation to close the project. Well, we went over. All of that we cover that
Orlando Sequera: are these closing activities. On slide 120 done, is the question order? Not necessarily. They can be done in any order.
Orlando Sequera: Do I understand that you must always close procurements for your close projects? Yes.
Orlando Sequera: and because the litigation can take years.
Orlando Sequera: you always close procurements if they go to litigation. Yes, you document it, You document your procurement that it was
Orlando Sequera: that you follow the escalation
Orlando Sequera: process that didn't work, and the last reserve was litigation, and it was sent to the legal department.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: so.
Orlando Sequera: But you always close procurement. You never leave procurements open.
Orlando Sequera: Going back to closing projects. Another type of question that they might come at you.
Orlando Sequera: Do you mind, is notorious for that? They might tell you
Orlando Sequera: that you might have a question, for example, that as you.
Orlando Sequera: the organization has been able to determine that
Orlando Sequera: they will be conducting
Orlando Sequera: a similar project, and they would like to.
Orlando Sequera: since the project is similar, they would like to keep the
Orlando Sequera: the project team
Orlando Sequera: a together, and they would like to keep the project open. What do you do in that situation?
Orlando Sequera: The answer is, no something along the lines of
Orlando Sequera: you. Get a close, your project, and then you have to go through a the same process, same planning processes for the new project. Okay, Under no circumstances, you keep any project open.
Orlando Sequera: Make sure that you remember that for
Orlando Sequera: for the Exempt.
Orlando Sequera: How do you decide how long the hyper care should be? That depends on your organization. That depends on your organization. That's gonna be specified. It could be one week, 2 weeks.
Orlando Sequera: That changes from organization to organization
Orlando Sequera: training as a handover activity has to be accounted for in scope not only scope.
Orlando Sequera: it's also part of your budget, and it's also part of your schedule. So yes, it has to be. Take account it as part of your it's gonna have an impact on your scope. It's gonna have an impact on your budget because
Orlando Sequera: you need money
Orlando Sequera: and it's gonna have an impact on your schedule.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so yes, it's gonna have
Orlando Sequera: impact in multiple areas of your project.
Orlando Sequera: Did you consider a project close when the last invoice has some paid?
Orlando Sequera: It depends. I mean, No, everything has to be. All the procurements have to be closed. Everything has to be closed
Orlando Sequera: in order to close the project
Orlando Sequera: is the benefit owner
Orlando Sequera: from within the project team or outside. Usually someone from outside the project team.
Orlando Sequera: Where can we find a comprehensive list of all artifacts? Pmi project mansion.com as multiple templates.
Orlando Sequera: Should not a transfer be fully complete before project closure? Yes.
Orlando Sequera: for that particular project.
Orlando Sequera: or can it last beyond, if some things need close, but certain resources are available. No, you should do it before you close your project. It's part of the closure activities.
Orlando Sequera: You're not gonna have time to go back and do it. You're gonna be working in a different project. Most likely
Orlando Sequera: is financial closure
Orlando Sequera: with client also essential a closed-state project. Yes, you have to close all your procurement. As I mentioned before.
Orlando Sequera: there's a question.
Orlando Sequera: Thank you for answering my question about the eac for forecasting, but it's still not clear to me. Should we at the risk, for example, 20 K potential risk, or should we wait when we are confirmed that it is an issue? Well, remember that an issue is a negative risk, that material license.
Orlando Sequera: But in that case
Orlando Sequera: it depends on the probability and impact of the risk. I will have to have a little bit more because the eac is about realities. What's happening in your project? Okay. So kind of mix in a couple of things that are
Orlando Sequera: Eac: so about
Orlando Sequera: it's about. Something that happened actually might be related to an issue
Orlando Sequera: rather than at risk at risk is an uncertainty. May or may not happen
Orlando Sequera: all right. So. If it happens, then you, it is confirm an issue, and then then it's going to have an impact on your project.
Orlando Sequera: It's in handover Renaissance transition management, planning with transition. It's actually transition part of the transition process.
Orlando Sequera: Transition is not a component of the pre match and plan. It's not one of the separate areas. That's where they're trying to tell you what it happens. Pmi is not saying that it doesn't happen end user training. We
Orlando Sequera: are taking that into account.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, that's part of the readiness, but it's not a set. We what we're saying here that you don't need a separate plan
Orlando Sequera: or this transition. You have to take it into account.
Orlando Sequera: A. B. But it is something that you have to do. But you, you don't need that specific plan that's what they were saying.
Orlando Sequera: Can benefit owner be a sponsor? Yes, in some cases absolutely yes.
Orlando Sequera: to whom our project benefits reported usually to a benefit. There's a benefits management department in the organization. But they're gonna keep track of the benefits
Orlando Sequera: is the review of lessons. Learned part of
Orlando Sequera: is the review of lessons learned
Orlando Sequera: of past similar projects, part of the
Orlando Sequera: former process of planning new projects. Yes, that's why we review organizational process assets.
Orlando Sequera: and we do that in planning
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: an example of a benefit, using house construction as an example. It could be that your a house is a energy efficient that has solar panels and the
Orlando Sequera: multiple benefits that can come with the house, so it's a it's solar, and it's greener.
Hmm.
Orlando Sequera: Shoot him the vessel ser, and be kept Pmo. To a repository. A Pmo. If there's a Pm. In place, they help with that. But there there is a repository in the organization. But if there's a Pm. If they're gonna make sure that it gets done.
Orlando Sequera: No, thank you very much.
Orlando Sequera: When does it warrant your continuous support to the final, probably get listed? Besides, the contract
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: The way was explained was mostly from an internal perspective, like an internal project.
Orlando Sequera: But it's more about the warranty period that you have
Orlando Sequera: with the project team, right. It's usually one week or 2 weeks, or it could be more than that it could be a month. It depends.
Orlando Sequera: But is that
Orlando Sequera: extra
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: oversight that your team is going to provide
Orlando Sequera: a after the product service of result has transition to
Orlando Sequera: production
Orlando Sequera: close out the Via stewardship transfer to operations to customer. Well, that's transition
Orlando Sequera: when you complete your project, and that's transition. But you gotta close your project.
Orlando Sequera: Do you consider the pride? Delivers have been accepted, but the last symbol has been paid. Usually that that should not be the case. You can close your project if
Orlando Sequera: the last payment hasn't been made.
yet
Orlando Sequera: you get a close procurement. Remember what we said. We got a close procurement.
Orlando Sequera: If the legal department wins to you, reevaluate the pray for completion. No, that that
Orlando Sequera: 3 years later. You might not even be in that organization. So no.
Orlando Sequera: the transition requirements makes part of a closer report.
Orlando Sequera: Yes.
Orlando Sequera: Do you run into a lot of stakeholders company people that don't want to go through all the Pm. Steps and planning processes.
Orlando Sequera: It happens in organizations that are new to project management.
Orlando Sequera: but
Orlando Sequera: more and more organizations are starting to realize the benefits of this approach, and they will support it.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So I I think that we are.
Orlando Sequera: hey? There's another question. There's been a lot of discussions from Agile, so we also consider getting satisfied. Scrum master. It really depends on what you want to do with your career. Some people that are working in some industries. Yes, some other people. No.
Orlando Sequera: Would you primarily use Microsoft
Orlando Sequera: Project as a Pm.
Orlando Sequera: If we learn how to use it Well, that usually helps with predictive.
Orlando Sequera: with a predictive approach. But it's it really helps. If you're going to be a Pm. You have to learn how to use Microsoft Project.
Orlando Sequera: That's my personal opinion, at least
Orlando Sequera: all right. So I think we are
Orlando Sequera: pretty much caught up with the content related questions, and I would like to take a few minutes to talk about the exam.
Orlando Sequera: as I've been mentioned before. There's a few aspects that I would like to mention for the Pmp. Exempt. So let's start
Orlando Sequera: by talking about
Orlando Sequera: the structure of your Pmp. Exempt
Orlando Sequera: this new version of the Pmp. Exam. Which which is not really that news being 2 years.
Orlando Sequera: they start in 2,021
Orlando Sequera: January of 2021
Orlando Sequera: is
Orlando Sequera: more.
Orlando Sequera: The key aspect is critical. Thinking.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. The key aspect is critical thinking. The questions most of the questions are going to be scenario based.
Orlando Sequera: They're not going to be asking you about
Orlando Sequera: definitions or
Orlando Sequera: tools or techniques
Orlando Sequera: that we
Orlando Sequera: cover in this content.
Orlando Sequera: That's not the type of question. So if you want to get more information over the type of
Orlando Sequera: the type of questions that you're going to be facing. Do you need to go to
Orlando Sequera: desperate
Orlando Sequera: test? Prep is going to be your main resource to take practice questions
Orlando Sequera: that's gonna get you exposed to the type of
Orlando Sequera: questions that you will be facing in your Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: If i'm not mistaken, I think the database is has around 600.
Orlando Sequera: I'm going to defer to the moderators on that. They're always accurate, but I think it has closely to 600 plus
Orlando Sequera: different questions that you can take.
Orlando Sequera: and it will give you the chance to
Orlando Sequera: learn
Orlando Sequera: to learn about the Pmp. Exam. This is provided by skills, so you have to go to to Per CPU, and under we have covered that multiple times and precipio go to practice. There's one of the tabs that is called practice, and
Orlando Sequera: it has on the practice you will be able to get to. Oh, thank you very much, Kar. So
Orlando Sequera: des Prep. Skills of test prep has 587 different questions. These are great questions very similar to what you're gonna find in the actual Pmp: Exam.
Orlando Sequera: and it's gonna get you exposed to the type of scenario questions in which critical thinking
Orlando Sequera: key aspect. Okay, these questions are vetted. My recommendation is, Be careful with there's some free resources out there. Some of them are
Orlando Sequera: good, some of them are not so good. Some of those questions are outdated, so be careful with the nature of the of the questions that you get
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: take as many practice questions as possible. So your preparation you need to
Orlando Sequera: you completed the 35 h to make the requirement.
Orlando Sequera: The intention is not for for for you to know it all right away right now. You need time to digest what we cover in a week.
Orlando Sequera: and remember that it takes. You need a 100 h in average and 100 h in average to get ready to for that Pmp. Exempt
Orlando Sequera: It's it's not easy. It's not an easy exam. I'm: not gonna Sugar code the exam. It requires a lot of preparation in per CPU as well. You also have recorded videos that are gonna help you to do a deeper dive.
Orlando Sequera: You can go to per sepio and look for specific videos. If you want to learn more of an environment management. There are great specific videos in Per CPU as well that you can watch.
Orlando Sequera: and you can do a deeper dive
Orlando Sequera: and understand some of the concepts that might be new
Orlando Sequera: to you, that we cover in the class.
Orlando Sequera: If you are new to agile for those of you that have never worked with agile before Agile is new.
Orlando Sequera: I would recommend you to read the ads or practice Guide all the agile that you need to know, for the Pmp. Exam. Is cover here. This is one of the most important references for the exam. Okay. But remember that you said you use it as a reference. Notice a study guide. The same goes for the PIN. But
Orlando Sequera: you said as a reference, when you want to do a deeper dive, not as a study guide. They're not written as study guides. The Study guide. Is this content that you have here? This is the still version of those 10 different references that are condensed Here.
Orlando Sequera: let's talk a little bit about the exam. Another important aspect that we have covered also is the application. So you completed one of the requirements with this class, but you also need to
Orlando Sequera: be able to fill out your application. Complete your application.
Orlando Sequera: It treated as if you were, I think the closest analogy will be like whenever you are applying for a job. In using an applicant tracking system, it's pretty much the same principle. You have to add your personal information, this information about this class
Orlando Sequera: also. They probably the most important aspect is your experience section you have to have. If you have a 4 year college degree. Then you have to be able to provide information on 36,
Orlando Sequera: 36 months of leading projects. Experience of leaving projects for 36 months
Orlando Sequera: treat. It used to resume. I will recommend you to use the resume.
Orlando Sequera: so you can get the dates, and they they cannot be any overlapping with that experience.
Orlando Sequera: Make sure that you provide your You write your experience from the perspective of
Orlando Sequera: what a project manager that, and what a project manager that is what we cover in this class. We are not.
Orlando Sequera: They sub them matter experts, we not the ones doing the work. I've seen many cases that many people start getting really technical. When we, when they explain what they did in their projects. We we don't do that. We are the Pms. We
Orlando Sequera: we help the team with. We create project management plans. We help with communications. We help with the issue of resolution. We help with developing this code, developing the budget, developing the the actual
Orlando Sequera: scheduled for the project. That's what we do, we we, we, we, we, we, we with risk identification. We don't do the technical aspects of the project. Okay, that for the application, once your application is approved, you have one year to take the Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: A:
Orlando Sequera: Let's talk about the specific experience for the Pmp. Exam. You can take it from home. That's one option. It's an online proctor that is gonna be watching you over the 230 min. You will have to log in. There is
Orlando Sequera: there is a company that is called Pearson View. They are the exam provider for the Project Management Institute, and you'll have to log in through. Go through a checking process if you're taking it from home. My recommendation is, if you decide to take it from home, do not use that work laptop.
Orlando Sequera: Use your personal laptop because you might have some firewalls in place that might prevent you from connecting properly to the to the application or personal view application.
Orlando Sequera: If your Internet connection is not
Orlando Sequera: reliable, do not take it from home. Do not take it for go to a testing center. That's the second option that you have go to a local testing center. Pearson View has multiple locations. You can check that out in their website.
Orlando Sequera: Go to a testing center. And that's the decision that you have to make. Do you take it from home, or do you do it at a testing center?
Orlando Sequera: Basically it's the same experience for some people. It works better at a testing center. Some people like to go and take it from home. You're gonna have more options at home.
Orlando Sequera: My recommendation is, take that exam as early as possible in the day. I'm not a morning person per se. When I took it, I took it at noon.
Orlando Sequera: and it was 4 h back then.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: do not take it at night, either. Don't take it late during the day. It's gruesome. It's gonna be
Orlando Sequera: 230 min plus 2
Orlando Sequera: built in 10 min. Breaks at our team and
Orlando Sequera: make sure that you take the breaks, Take the breaks.
Orlando Sequera: The exam is broken down into 3 sections. So this is the way it works. And that was covering one of the videos that bar a recorded for this class.
Orlando Sequera: You you're going to start with the first set of 60 questions.
Orlando Sequera: but you get it.
Orlando Sequera: Another important aspect is: you have to manage your time. My recommendation is
Orlando Sequera: get used in test prep
Orlando Sequera: to answer questions within 60 s or less. That's going to help you.
Orlando Sequera: because the clock is gonna start at 230, and it's gonna start taking down. It's not gonna really tell you whether you are on on time or not. You have to track that mentally, manually. Okay. So get used to 60 s or less. Go
Orlando Sequera: it. Start your first 60 questions when you get when you're getting to. When you get to the question Number 60,
Orlando Sequera: you're gonna get the option to take a break. But you have to submit
Orlando Sequera: those questions you can mark for review. If you don't know the answer, you can mark for review and go back, but
Orlando Sequera: make sure that you answer every single question, so otherwise it's going to count negative against your score. Every single question is going to be considered wrong. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A. So
Orlando Sequera: make sure that you answer every single question. You submit your questions. Take your break, reset.
Orlando Sequera: You don't have to take the full 10 min, but you can. You can take up to 10 min. Then you come back. Go to your go to the restaurant, drink something, have a power bar available, etc. Then come back and continue for the next
Orlando Sequera: 60 questions. Then, when you get to question number 120, you're gonna have the option to take a second break, and that'll be
Orlando Sequera: a that's another chance for you to go to restaurant reset, relax. I strongly suggest you. Please take your breaks, take your breaks. Okay, and then
Orlando Sequera: your
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: You're going to come back for the last 60 questions.
Orlando Sequera: One thing that I'm. Seeing in the chat that I would like to point out the test Prep. Questions are practice, questions. These are mock exams. These are not the same questions that you will find verbatim in the Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: Only Pmi has those questions okay. But the test prep questions are practice questions that are written by project management professionals that are very similar. They're not the same similar to the ones that we that you will
Orlando Sequera: in style to the ones that you will encounter in your Pmp. Exam: okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right. That's a good point.
Orlando Sequera: Also
Orlando Sequera: a make sure
Orlando Sequera: that you take your breaks. You submit your exam
Orlando Sequera: the last section
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: you're gonna get the results right away. They're gonna tell you whether you pass or a or not. That's gonna happen immediately. You're gonna get the result. It's a pass or failed exam, and they're gonna give you only a report per domain.
Orlando Sequera: You and the categories are.
Orlando Sequera: Remember that we have 3 domains, right? So
Orlando Sequera: we have a people process and business environment, and they're gonna tell you whether you were below target on target, or they both target in each domain. That's all they're going to give you. They're not going to tell you which answers you get wrong. Which answer you got right.
Orlando Sequera: Not a graded exam. It's only passed or failed.
Orlando Sequera: Another important aspect Release one more time. The exam is not based on the PIN book. Please please remember that the exam is based on the exam Content outline. Remember that we were making reference to exam content. Outl for the last 5 days. There's a reason for that, because that is what
Orlando Sequera: what you're gonna be testing in the Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: Step number one in the preparation right now. What I would recommend you to do is go ahead and review that exam. Content outline, perform a short analysis, mainly focusing on the strengths and witnesses that you personally have
Orlando Sequera: and work on, making sure that the areas that you identify as a weakness you are able to address them and work on, making, transforming those weaknesses into into strength. I will that will be my my
Orlando Sequera: Then I will review the content
Orlando Sequera: again. Take practice questions as many as possible. Watch the videos that are recorded by Barb in with certain specific topics that you need to learn more about in value, management or conflict resolution. Watch this replace that you have available
Orlando Sequera: to you the 5, the 5 sessions, If you attend all, all, all the entire boot camp this is available to you, so
Orlando Sequera: please make sure that your view that take the time. It's gonna take you an average anywhere between 80 to 100 h and take practice questions. That's how you get ready for that exam. Don't drag it out. Either.
Orlando Sequera: Have a plan in place, I would say, for most people 6 to 8 weeks, a month and a half, 2 months in average after this class. That's a healthy a timeline. Don't let it linger. Don't wait too long because time a life gets in the way
Orlando Sequera: for
Orlando Sequera: the scenario questions as we have been mentioning before.
Orlando Sequera: Pay attention. First of all, read the questions properly. Understand exactly what they're asking. You. Okay, read the question
Orlando Sequera: I mean to end, because do my form an assumption in your mind about what they're asking you. But one little word or one little sentence at the end might change the entire question. Make sure that you understand what they're asking. You pay attention to the keywords
Orlando Sequera: that you are going to encounter in the questions, and by keywords I mean, what should I? What should you do next? What should you do first? What should you do now?
Orlando Sequera: What is the best approach. So look for those keywords, because, as I mentioned before, you're going to encounter some questions that are very similar in nature. But the keyword is, what's gonna make the difference?
Orlando Sequera: Okay, pay attention to those details. All right.
Orlando Sequera: There is a question.
Orlando Sequera: Do you have to pass all 3 parts of the exam. But can you still pass if you do poorly on one part of the exam? Well, if you look at the percentages.
Orlando Sequera: 50 50 of the exam is
Orlando Sequera: process.
Orlando Sequera: One of the domains and 42 of the exam is
Orlando Sequera: people.
Orlando Sequera: So basically what they're saying is, you have to do well in process and people to pass the exam.
Orlando Sequera: the only one that you they remain their 8% basis environment. You can do. Okay with that, you don't you. You can do poorly in a in in business environments still past the exam right, but prefer to pass, prefer to pass so so, so the end short. Answer is, Yes, you.
Orlando Sequera: It's only 8, so that's that. That's one that you can that that you can it it? It's a little. It's less
Orlando Sequera: compared to the other 2. But you gotta do well in process, and you get to do well in people.
Orlando Sequera: But my advice is, Prepare to pass the exam. Don't, prepare to take the exam. We're here preparing you to pass. We're giving you everything that you need to be successful. Okay. So prepare to pass the exam.
Orlando Sequera: Work. On passing the exam. Do you want to take this exam? Mark my words. Only one time you don't want to take this exam more than once, so prepared to pass the exam, follow, trust the system, follow the steps, and you're going to be successful, all right. So that's really
Orlando Sequera: that's really important to keep in mind. A. I see a question in in the in the Q. A. There's no passing percent. It's Pmi doesn't publish that it's not published, not available. You have to work on, making sure that you are ready for that Exam. Okay, we have given you everything that you need
Orlando Sequera: to get ready for the exam.
Orlando Sequera: Try to give as much as possible.
Orlando Sequera: and now it's time for you to
Orlando Sequera: put in the blood and sweat to make sure that you get ready, that you watch your V. Those videos to get ready for the exam. Take your practice questions, and a is is it easy? No, but it is doable. A lot of people have done it, but it's one of the
Orlando Sequera: it's. It's gonna be very rewarding, and it's gonna open many doors in your in your careers.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: Thank you very much. Everyone. We're coming to the end. I'm going to take a look at
Orlando Sequera: to see if there's any outstanding. I know there's some questions on our
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: and our mentors are doing.
Orlando Sequera: Thank you so much, everyone. I wish you
Orlando Sequera: nothing but the best. Please feel out, feel free to reach out
Orlando Sequera: on Linkedin. I know that some of you have done it by all means. Hopefully, all of you filled out the survey. There's always room for improvement.
Orlando Sequera: and make sure that you also review the vocabulary section of each lesson that is important. We always follow the P. 1 One thing that I notice, I think that some of you need to a little bit out of a better job in getting familiarized with the terminology. The vocabulary is important. You gotta use the Pmi terms. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: it might be different in your in your industry and your organization. But follow. Use. Pmi vocabulary is pmi words
Orlando Sequera: for the exam.
Orlando Sequera: and remember the Pmi mindset the topics that I mentioned conflict management, serve and leadership. Look at the questions from that perspective. Always do the right thing. That's also
Orlando Sequera: ethics. Make sure that you that you do that
Orlando Sequera: as well.
Orlando Sequera: So thank you very much, everyone. It's been great.
Orlando Sequera: and we have come to the end will be
Orlando Sequera: here for a few more minutes, but we have come to the end of the session. Thank you so much. I wish you the best in your preparation. Efforts
Orlando Sequera: feel free to reach out.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: we have come to the end of the session. We have come to the end of the class.
Orlando Sequera: So thank you very much. Everyone. Now you're officially
Orlando Sequera: free to go.
Orlando Sequera: Thank you very much. Everyone have a great weekend. Thank you so much for the opportunity and for those of you that serve in the military. Thank you so much for your service.
Orlando Sequera: Thank you very much.
Orlando Sequera: Abra. Have a blessed. We can thank you.